OUTSIDENESS


Q. Would you go forward, please, to tab 74? This is more tweeting
by Nick Land. This is in 2016. He says: “Fact. White subnormals are
(ideologically) the niggers of the earth. Also fact: they’re white
subnormals (Jewy machinations notwithstanding).” Then he says,
“Of course they get a bum rap. The only people who will articulate
that above the level of inchoate howl will be power-crazed
hucksters.” Then he says, “Going out on a limb here. I’m going to
guess that it’s the poor dim Jews who get disproportionately
shoah’d.” The reference to “shoah’d,” that is a reference to the
holocaust, is it not?

A. Yes.
Q. Is this an antisemitic series of statements by Mr. Land?
A. I find it difficult again to interpret precisely what Nick Land is

saying here. He is a very ironic writer. He is referring to elements in
discourse using complex rhetorical techniques. I don’t think he is
saying these things in terms of his actual positions per se. He is
referring to something. I don’t really know what he is saying, to be
honest.

Miller & Power v Turner, Day 1,
October 3rd, 2023, pp. 82–83.



CONTENTS
Foreword
2013
2014
2015
2016
2017
2018
2019
2020
2021
2022
2023
Endnotes



FOREWORD
Nick Land created his Twitter account (@Outsideness) in late 2013
and used it avidly until losing access to it in late 2023.[*]

Outsideness: 2013–2023 appears in 2025 not as a unique work of
philosophy but as a collection of Land’s most interesting and
important Twitter writings in chronological order, preserving them
forever. Each sentence has been freed—with the help of
@doomcrypt—from the cold recesses of the X servers, where billions
of other words have faded into oblivion.

When Land first logged in, posts were restricted to 140
characters, forcing brevity and compactness. Then, in 2017, the
character limit was increased to 280, allowing for more detailed
thought. These changes are generally reflected in Land’s output,
with longer, more thorough writings appearing after the early years.

The editorial work has formalized the prose; threads have been
consolidated into paragraphs and micro-essays; threads featuring
two or more people have been rendered into dialogue format; and
links have been archived and listed in the “Endnotes” section at the
end of the book.

As for the contents, the most frequent unique keywords include
democracy, human, intelligence, civilization, liberalism, leftist,
Western, IQ, society, theory, government, communism,
accelerationism, and philosophy. Those familiar with Land’s work at
Xenosystems should feel quite at home.



OUTSIDENESS
2013–2023

Nick Land



2013
Shorter Rawls: assuming just dogmatic egalitarianism allows us to
conclude dogmatic egalitarianism.

§
The proletariat is too inert to build the future, the bourgeoisie too
timid. For break out, both have to be secretly slaved to mad science.

§
Any law that is too long to be easily memorized is only being obeyed
by accident (or due to a serendipitous conformity to common norms)
unless it is deliberately directed at atypical social agents, of a kind
able to sustain their own legal departments (clearly a bad sign).

§
Succinct religious prohibitions, common law conventions, and
constitutional protections are respected because they are pointedly
memorable.

§
The challenge would be to compact an entire constitution into a
tweet, but it would lack the recursion required by a self-protective
seed-AI.

§
Pull all the chimp emotion / signalling out of “good” and what
remains is intelligence optimization.

§
For “empathic altruism” to be “simply good,” Malthus—who draws
attention to the unseen (complicated)—must be simply wrong. He is
not.



§
There is no viable attractor for strategic integration of the outer right
except geopolitical fragmentation (secession / dynamic geography).

§
Tightening feedback loops is right, loosening them is left. The
divisive question: How much does sensitivity to actual consequences
matter?

§
For the left, all perception means compromise, and thus spiritual
failure. To be realistic is to fall from ideological grace.

§
Order is an emergent property. Any realistic “politics of order” has to
align with the conditions that generate order (or “extropy”).

§
To support “order” without an understanding of its genesis is like
supporting “cool products” (rather than a functional economy).

§
“Scientific” reductionism is just so many empty words unless you
make a serious effort to dismantle yourself.

§
For the scale-free fragmentationist, secession does not stop until you
are picking apart your mitochondria.

§
Constitutions are designs and operating instructions for mechanisms.
They do not rule any more than rocket blueprints blast into orbit.

§
To reject the principle of constitutional mechanism leaves only the
choice between a monarch and a mob—both patently unworthy of
trust.



§
By arithmetizing incentives, money facilitates precision engineering
solutions to social problems. Even the cuddliest fuzzy values impede
them.

§
Democracy is the homage that the world’s second oldest profession
pays to its first.

§
The only robust ends are general purpose means—the Shoggoth
philosophy.

§
Religious arguments, rigorously conceived, proceed from the
“consequences” or implications of eternity for time (and history).

§
If time can be comprehended without reference to anything outside
time, it needs to be a far deeper idea of time than any yet advanced.

§
Today’s “things kinda sorta seem okay” economy makes no sense
without the understanding that asset bubbles are hyperinflation for
rich people.

§
Conservatives are too responsible to play chicken. That is proving to
be a fatal self-inhibition. Eventually, inevitably, Atlas must shrug.

§
When you are fighting a parasite, you are going to lose if your
primary motivation is making sure there is plenty of food on the
table.

§
When you are seriously sick, your body starves you until it is over.
Nature knows what it is doing that way.



§
Hunger is vastly preferable to feeding the enemy. If you do not see
that, you are not yet serious. (Whilst they are nourished, they win.)

§
Cultivate intelligence, until the primacy of the practical over the
theoretical makes sense, and your brain is taking a Chinese lesson.
Mou Zongsan explicates the basic orientation of Chinese philosophy
most rigorously and lucidly, training it against Kant. Essentially:
thought must be cultivated if it is to happen at all, and cultivation is
a practical project.

For modernists, the most helpful analogy might be the
precedence of technique to science, algorithms to theorems. A
critique, then, of the presumption of theoretical priority. Worth
exploring, even if you are inclined to scepticism—perhaps especially
if you are inclined to scepticism. (It might suggest that Pyrrho has
been systematically misunderstood.)

§
The Soviets were brought down by bad cybernetics. It is looking as
if history still rhymes. (Forget politics and focus on bugs.)

§
The right’s main problem (Mao notwithstanding): whoever ends up
with the cities wins.

§
Cities and civilization are a single topic, as etymology attests, and no
bath in Sodom and Gomorrah can last long enough to change that.

§
To be cold (or “just”), think the Mandate of Heaven: rulers that fail
have no claim upon the sympathies of the scrupulous reactionary
mind.

§



If you think idiocracy is arriving too slowly, there is a tried and tested
solution—communism:

In fact, the “covariance” between morality and intelligence has become
quite pronounced in recent times. This is particularly true of one of the
“new-fashioned” moralities, of the type we are constantly assured we
need to replace the old ones in the name of promoting “human
flourishing.” The one I have in mind is Marxism, and never did such a
new secular religion, complete with a revolutionary new morality,
introduce itself to the world with more extravagant promises of the
“human flourishing” to come. That’s where the usefulness of the
proposed metric comes in. I would maintain, quite apart from what was
promised, that one of the most remarkable aspects of the reality of
Marxist “human flourishing” that we have now been fortunate enough
to witness has been the decapitation of at least two countries; the
former Soviet Union and Cambodia.

In round numbers, 25 million of a population of something under
200 million in the Soviet Union, and two million of a population of
around seven million in Cambodia, were shot, starved, or tortured to
death in these two countries in the interest of promoting “human
flourishing.” These millions were not randomly chosen. They were, in
fact, an instance of reverse eugenics in action. The historical source
material is there in abundance for anyone who cares to look. Read, for
example, Solzhenitsyn’s The Gulag Archipelago, or Survival in the Killing
Fields by Haing Ngor and Roger Warner. In both cases, the victims
came disproportionately from the ranks of each nation’s best and
brightest; its scientists, its engineers, its literary and philosophical
intelligentsia, and anyone else who happened to be educated beyond
the mean.

It seems to me wildly implausible that these events had no
significant impact on the heritable cognitive abilities of the populations
of these two nations, whether in the form of IQ or any other plausible
measure. Would not a metric of exactly what these effects were be
extremely useful in helping us decide whether the whole project of
coming up with yet another wonderful new morality is really in our best
interests or not? Who knows, we might find out that there are actually
better ways to promote “human flourishing” after all.[1]

§



The basic case against democracy is that it weaponizes stupidity.
What should be an object of vague sympathy becomes a detestable
enemy.

§
Universal enfranchisement is the H-bomb of ideological subversion.
(With worse long-term consequences for our genes.)

§
Discussing AI exposes the Western theo-philosophical tradition as a
subtle form of brain damage, warping even geniuses like Yudkowsky.
To see this kind of talent go so obviously and hopelessly wrong is
just sad (Yudkowsky, 2011).[2] What a waste. The utter confusion
exhibited in the last paragraph says it all—as if advanced AI could
easily have “uninteresting” values.

Advanced intelligence requires that intelligence be a value to itself
(self-cultivation)—“but what if it’s a paper-clipper?” If you cannot see
what is wrong with this kind of thinking, you have been programmed
by a messed-up culture to a scary extent.

§
Conceptually consistent remix: “orthogonality” sounds better than
“this is a list of things we don’t want the AI to think about.”

§
Karl Marx’s greatest mistake was not recognizing that the capitalist
bourgeoisie are roll-over pussies. (Schumpeter is more insightful on
that.)

§
Is it sound and fair to summarize the Christian position as “the
ultimate tragedy has already happened, and it wasn’t so bad”?

§
It might be impossible for people to fully accept how much history
was, is, and will always be horrified spectating.

§



In Greek tragedy, even the chorus, embedded in the midst of the
dramatic action, helplessly spectates. That is institutionalized
wisdom.

§
The whole point of being on the outer right is to make thinking
uncomfortable. Once it starts to look cozy, it is time to break things
up.

§
Discrimination is the sole defence against chaos. (That is not
extremist politics, but mainstream thermodynamics.)

§
If you have an ideological problem with filters, you are proposing
submergence in raw reality. (Safe prediction: you will not like raw
reality.)

§
Modernism has two basic features: abstraction and non-
discrimination. The former is a dimension of excellence that the
latter obscures.

§
To retreat from the cultural adventure of abstraction would be an
idiocy without peer—but non-discrimination has already taken that
slot.

§
To reject modernity in general in the name of lost discriminations is
radically indiscriminate, thus representing modernity at its dimmest.

§
The sole expertise truly indispensable for a modern public
intellectual is thought avoidance.

§



Every great artwork is an intrinsic act of discrimination, and there
are still great artworks being created today. The “art world,”
however, has far deeper problems—beginning with the absorption of
“greatness” into radical sarcasm.

§
Modernism does not belong to the dull hordes of the left. What
better evidence for this than their orchestrated decision to destroy
it?

§
Suzhou Gardens are a great place to see what civilization looks like,
even if the answer today is implausible: too crowded.

§
When I claim the right to think, the Cosmos cannot even be
bothered to laugh. (I do not care about that.)

§
Modernity rejects teleology with such deep consistency that it makes
mechanical explanation the most fully elaborated telos in history.

§
Providential theology, evolutionary naturalism, and catallactic
praxeology are all driven to tell us what apparent teleology really is.

§
The single most important fact in cultural sociology is that there are
no time experts—yet everyone thinks it is being “done” somewhere.

§
Tolerance of uncertainty (an intellectual virtue) is not to be confused
with the disabling of pattern recognition for political convenience.

§
We swim against 500,000,000 years of cognitive urgency when we
hold open the unknown, but deliberate ignorance is a far more
recent thing.



§
“Houston, we have a problem.” For Pyrrhonians, the space program
was justified by this phrase.

§
End of the ultra-Protestant lineage: if intellectual liberty proves
calamitous for society, then calamity it is. (My colours on that mast.)

§
Influential liberals are not stupid, but forward thinking: “If people
see X, they will be sure to conclude Y, so .  .  . blindness is
mandatory.”

§
The point of NR is not to engineer a new aristocracy, but to expose
the fact that engineering equality has been a failure and a lie.

§
One thing shared by every decadent age: in retrospect their
preoccupations are seen as pathetically inadequate to the coming
crisis.

§
Dynamic diversity is robust, expressive diversity is fragile, and crisis
selects strongly for robustness. Those who try many things win.

§
Essentially, democracy is the principle that liberty is debatable.

§
The willingness to obliterate entire countries in order to make a
point shows that “correct” opinion has become a force of mass
destruction.

§
If suffering was really a serious objection to anything, nothing would
exist.



§
American conservatism is communism in rehab. The idea that
democracy can conduct popular demands is Rousseauistic delusion.
Only exit-based social mechanisms can do that.

§
One hour of 2013 left in Shanghai. It has been quite a year for the
Qwerwolves of the outer right.



2014
However impressive plans sound, if they are serious about feedback
responsiveness they cannot expect to last.

§
The horror of Lovecraft (for the Cathedral): you cannot shun or
ritualistically purify yourself of that which has already slithered
inside.

§
The right can be just as imprisoned in its sweet feelings as the left,
and often on exactly the same questions that make the left the left.

§
“Peel off a very thin layer of civilization, and you are swallowed up
among thieving primates. So, what are you going to do about that?”

§
If America (like “Vietnam”) was primarily the name of a war, we
would understand its historical function far better.

§
The mainstream “right” is the catamite of the left. That is a fact it
has decided—with increasing desperation—not to think about.

§
“Moral panic should be respected as an obstacle to the investigation
of reality.” If this maxim does not repulse you, you are not one of us.

§
“Creepiness” is a subjective adjective. It is the cry of radical
dishonesty, lured into an encounter with itself.



§
Just plunged into a moment of darkness and disconnection among
croaking frogs—a reminder that the apocalypse will not be twittered.

§
The centrality of media to the Cathedral means the coming crisis will
involve a grotesque orgy of self-reflexive cultural vulgarity. Every
second wasted upon the media phenomenon feels like a defilement,
yet this is also incontestably the thing itself.

§
Moldbug’s monarchism is over-emphasized relative to his parallel
critical insight: alien colonial rule is preferable to domestic
democracy.

§
Libertarians are typically urban types who have never walked
through a city with their eyes open.

§
“Capitalism is racist” is a more fashionable version of “civilization is
racist.”

§
Bane to NRx: “The left is not a political opposition; it is a mindless
disease (and perhaps—in the hands of a master—a bioweapon).”

§
Because Evola has no insight into the telos of capitalism
(technological singularity), he sees only surface effects:

I have previously discussed the analogy that exists between the single
individual and a collective entity, and the legitimacy that this analogy
was accorded in the ancient past. I have also remarked that in modern
times the dimension of sociopolitical organization has descended from a
plane in which the vital, material part is subordinated to higher
faculties, forces, and goals, to a plane in which this higher dimension is
lacking or, worse yet, through an inversion, deprived of its own



dimension and subordinated to inferior functions, which in the single
individual correspond to the merely physical plane. The counterpart of
this, in the State, is the economy. I will now consider the phenomenon
in question from the perspective of this particular aspect.

As I have said before, when the right and primacy of interests higher
than those of the socioeconomic plane are not upheld, there is no
hierarchy, and even if there is one, it is only a counterfeit; this is also
true when a higher authority is not accorded to those men, groups, and
bodies representing and defending these values and interests. In this
case, an economic era is already by definition a fundamentally
anarchical and antihierarchical era; it represents a subversion of the
normal order. The materialization and the soullessness of all the
domains of life that characterize it divest of any higher meaning all
those problems and conflicts that are regarded as important within it.[3]

If capitalism was in its ultimate reality a mechanism for the
satisfaction of human needs, it would indeed be contemptible.
Instead, it negotiates with human needs only to draw recalcitrant
apes into realizing something far greater than themselves.

§
Capitalism diverts productive activity from status symbolism to the
enhancement of capabilities (intelligence optimization). Starting from
where it does (among status-obsessed apes), it has to learn to traffic
in the signs of status to do so. The capabilities (“capital”) produced
are not reducible to human phenomenology—that is a form of anti-
realism.

§
If you think teleology is simply about subordinating means to
already-publicized ends, you have not actually begun to think about
it.

§
Romanticism is the assertive form of the recalcitrant ape mind. It is
NRx at its most magnificent .  .  . and its most stupid. (The lost
cause.)



§
Global terrorism is basically Western media, assisted by a few
maniacs:

The primary motive of terrorism is to draw media attention to the
perpetrators’ grievances.

When Western media cover a terrorist incident, they reflexively focus
upon the perpetrators’ grievances.

Coverage of this kind isn’t about terrorism. It’s an organic
component of terrorism.[4]

§
Thomas Mann’s Der Zauberberg plays with the conceit that an ultra-
Catholic social theorist can credibly represent fundamental Marxist
ideas. Given some of the odd trends on the Neoreactionary “right”
recently, I am beginning to think he was onto something insightful.

§
Getting a small number of ideas exactly right is far more important
than building a “movement.”

§
Why history is annoying, explained: whining-ability is highly g-
loaded.

§
Cultural cladistics is primarily a study of ethnicity, and only
derivatively of ideology. Ethnogenesis is not mere intellectual
persuasion. The philosophes had interesting ideas. The puritans
were a new people.

§
Prediction: by the end of 2014, numerous outer right sympathizers
will have become opportunistically de-disillusioned by democracy.
Our pedagogic task: “right” electoral advance means nothing—or
even less—unless accompanied by a firm strategy to dismantle
democracy.

§



Conservation of momentum is Neoreactionary.
§

Those slave-owners had a brilliant idea: use Africans to turn money
into lung cancer. (Unfortunately, it went downhill fast after that.)

§
To invest people with positive political rights is to weaponize them
against civilization.

§
Outsideness: Those denouncing the 333-current for “White
supremacism” seem to think it is saying: “White people built the
Cathedral, and that is great!”

@mr_archenemy: Did I miss something? What is this 333 thing
about?

Outsideness: “Dark Enlightenment” = 333 (from Gnon).[5]

§
The fundamental presupposition of religious studies is that religion
has nothing to do with anything.[6]

§
Politics is the deposit on the street that bad art treads in.

§
If you think talking about “attractors” frees you from the
embarrassment of teleology, you might be treating language as a
hipster wardrobe.

§
If read (properly) as a reductio ad absurdum of the Labor Theory of
Value, Das Kapital is a magnificent theoretical achievement.

§
Deracinated cosmopolitans are neither a majority, nor (in any non-
sophistical sense) a “thede.”

§



Individualism is the loose pole of human collectivity (to treat as an
absolute is myth).

§
I have great confidence that 2015 will be an incandescent
nightmare.



2015
Considered as a systematic forecast (from the mid-19th century),
that of Samuel Butler was no less successful than Charles Darwin’s.

§
Natural law is like homo economicus, in being a disciplined
idealization capturing the limit of tendential process.

§
Diversity is what people talk about when they cannot be bothered to
discriminate.

§
The only possible problem with discrimination lies in not being
discriminating enough.

§
Neocameralism superconducts capital teleology. That is what it is for.

§
God, natural selection, capital teleology—none of these ideas invite
compromise, or even tolerate it.

§
“The idea that humans possess inherent traits is known as ‘biological
determinism’” (Jmag nuttiness dialled to 11):

[It is] the notion that traits we observe in ourselves are natural,
products of our biology, not of the cultural and historical situation we
live in. For instance, one may see a homeless man sleeping on the
sidewalk and assume he is a failure at life because of his genes, or say
that women are incapable of being serious scientists because of their
sex, or that all men must harbor aggression because of their biology.



Racism and sexism flow freely if you take biological determinism for
granted, and conservatives often use biological determinism as a
fallback for their arguments—despite the fact that anthropologists are
near-ubiquitous in their assertion that that biological determinism is
flagrantly false. “All cultures have sex, aggression, etc., but whether
and how it is expressed is subordinate to the cultural order,”
anthropologist Marshall Sahlins writes. In the anti–Active SETI troupe,
we see a mutated form of this: astrobiological determinism.[7]

Are humans supposed to be the only species without any “inherent
traits”? If not, how are species differentiated at all? I think the
correct answer is supposed to be: “Duh! By the mode of production
and class identity, are you totally ignorant?”

§
On present demographic trends, Western civilization is doomed.
Discuss.

Communists: “Yippee!”
NRx: “Uh oh!”
Mainstream liberals: “It will be okay.”
Ethico-political attachments aside, only one of these positions is

obviously stupid.
§

Outsideness: Liberty is nothing without the right to go to hell, and to
let other people go to hell. Universal salvation is infinite tyranny.

@BrowningMachine: Corollary: externally restraining men from
vice makes it impossible for them to achieve virtue.

§
Egalitarian esotericism is the ultimate poison, because it demands a
decision between universal idiocy and socially-intolerable truths. No
philosopher can be a fool, just to be good. For the populace, in
contrast, that is almost a necessity.

§



To misquote Churchill, reality is so precious that it must be shrouded
in a cloak of obscurity. It is a democratic indecency to publicly ask a
natural philosopher what they believe. (It will be things the people
cannot bear.)

§
If a “take” is required for every piece of deranged garbage floating
around, that is your brain flushed down the sewer.

§
Principal examples of moralistic disorder before Gnon: attempted
progressive end-runs around Hobbesian / Malthusian conservation
laws.

§
Every sufficiently advanced civilization has some version of the
“trolley problem” serving as a reliable index of its impending demise.

§
Politically speaking, breaking itself up is the only thing of any value
that the West has left to do. (Some fragments might survive.)

§
The apparent human agent is an illusion. If Kant does not persuade
you of that, neuroscience should.

§
Outsideness: The ancients knew “persons” were masks. Nothing we
have learnt since suggests they were wrong.

@MaiLaDreapta: Your “true self” is the mask you wear when you
look in the mirror.

§
No Western society any longer contains a core population that
basically likes itself (as a whole). The rest is sentimental nonsense.
Expect Humpty Dumpty politics to get ever more comical. But
eventually the omelette gets divided up, because those eggs are not
coming back.



§
The JQ is basically a test-run for unfriendly AI.

§
If you would welcome into your mind what you would not let into
your home, it is possible that you are not taking life seriously.

§
Ritual is far too important to be wasted on human togetherness.

§
The hereditarian principle suggests that the children of low-
investment parents are probably a bad investment.

§
Monarchism is a great source of trolling fuel, but the republican
critique of democracy has far greater practical leverage. Once the
American Republican Party is destroyed for its democratic deviance,
the rectification of signs can begin.

§
One reason for friends on the left and enemies on the right is that
the left is much better at wrecking the left than the right is.

§
Nietzsche earned his place among the prophets with this: “The world
becomes a lunatic asylum.”

§
There is no problem with “scientism” that is not a problem with
science.

§
If the Internet = the new printing press, and crypto-robotic
weaponry = the new gunpowder, it is not surprising to see tectonic
plates shift. The cascades just now beginning could be announcing
the most profound threshold of sociohistorical transition since the
Renaissance.



§
What is “ideology,” if not theory in its aspect as social technology?

§
“What is the antonym of ‘populism,’ dad?”

“‘Evolutionary bottleneck.’”
§

When it is finally time for democracy to jam the shotgun into its
mouth, fascism is there waiting for it.

§
2015 was a lot of fun, but it confirmed that the probability of
anything other than hideous shit happening on this planet is
basically zero.



2016
The fact that packs dominate herds is an elementary lesson in power
that even the dopiest mutt understands.

§
Human fungibility is apparently a belief of such supreme value that it
is worth accepting utter civilizational death to maintain it. Sadly, for
liberals, it requires a civilization to maintain it.

§
The critical question for Western civilization now: Would progs, if
anally gang-raped by the exotic other, question their ethico-political
assumptions? I would have to say, probably not. A different response
might lead to a more hopeful prognosis.

§
Retrospectively, NRx will look like a futile attempt to make the death
of democracy less hellish than it had to be. But we will get the full-
hellish version. Great and mysterious are the ways of Gnon. Probably
time to shift some of the cognitive energy from theorizing
Neocameralism to a cold understanding of evolutionary bottlenecks.

§
Old left: a boot stamping on a human face forever.

New left: “F**k you, dad!” forever.
New new left: an increasingly hysterical attempt to hold things

together for another two weeks.
§

Sole key to popcorn-political realism: get your utter nauseated
disillusionment firmly in place before any “contest” gets started.

§



The progressive doctrine, 21st century version: “Patriarchy,
misogyny, homophobia, antisemitism, murder and rape are bad—
unless Islam.” Also (inescapable rider): “Cognitive consistency is
racist as hell.”

§
The Anaximander fragment contains everything essential that the
West will ever know. Existence has a tragic structure. (The end.)

§
There is harsh Darwinism, and there is degeneration . . . and there
is nothing else.

§
If Malthusian relaxation was really the best argument in defence of
capitalism, Gnon would laugh at its critics less.

§
Left-liberal democracy leads to Hitler hell with the same inevitability
that Bolivarian socialism leads to hyperinflationary social collapse.

“Let us maximally accelerate demographic degeneration while
empowering the people—and if anything goes wrong it is because of
random evil.”

§
The basic socio-political quadrant is defined by two polarities:
experimentation vs. restriction, and solidarity vs. dissociation.
Experimental dissociative systems are consistent (and social
Darwinist), as are restrictive solidary systems (hard or soft
totalitarian). The other options are deluded. You cannot control
people without bundling them, or let them off the leash while
pooling the consequences. Go harsh, or go home.

§
The history of AI (research):

1)            Holy Gnon Almighty, the brain is a massive piece of
hardware.



2)      It is okay, we will use clever software.
3)      Damn, our clever software does not work.
4)      AI is hopeless.
5)      Oh look, we have got masses of hardware now.
6)      Still, clever software, that is what we do.
7)      Wow, look what that thing just did.
8)      That cannot be AI, we have no idea how it works.
9)      “Cut the software fetishism, puny humans.”

§
Keynesianism is socio-economic apocalypse engineering. Yes, it
knows how to kick the can down the road, but every time it is kicked
it gets bigger. (Kicking the oil drum is hard.) Eventually, the
cleansing fire will come. We are owed a conflagration beyond
comprehension by now.

§
Macroeconomics in a nutshell: buying time with corruption (lies),
until nothing remains of the social structure but its managed
simulation.

§
Life on this planet offers few delights comparable to seeing countries
brutally punished for socialism.

§
The ideological heterogeneity of White populations means that the
political effects of ethnic separation would be likely to disappoint
them. Unless geopolitical fragmentation works as a motor of
ideological selection, it leaves its animating conflicts essentially
unresolved.

WNs want political entities that are committed to identitarian
principles. Racial selection will not do that. If the goal is a White
identitarian state, it needs to select for identitarianism, far more
than for Whiteness. Only 16% of White Americans say their racial
identity is “very important” to them.[8]



But then, if demographic selection is primarily ideological, the
entire framework of WN political strategy is subverted at the root.
Separating right from left is the critical secessionist objective (this
will, of course, have massive “disparate impact”). Without the
prospect of a consistent right-wing government, there is nothing to
hold on to. The WN framework can only distract from this.

§
Classical liberalism, discriminating diversity, and techno-commercial
modernization are all far more baby than bath water.

§
Each year, one polar bear walks five times further than the total
distance covered by the entire panda population of the Earth.

§
No community is ever going to run its own selection mechanism
harder than necessary. Only the Outside can be trusted to do that.

§
Tempted to say “Herbert Spencer was a fag” if I was not sure it
would be misunderstood. No Social Darwinism is ever hard enough.

§
Outsideness: What does Darwin say? The quality of your remote
descendants is a function of the hell they will pass through.

@mr_archenemy: There is a new Darwin, and his name is
CRISPR.

Outsideness: CRISPR is enfolded within a meta-Darwinism.
(Which is only Darwinism, radically understood.) It will be used in
various ways. And after variation comes selection.

§
When historians look back on the death of the West, its religious
devotion to the idea of human fungibility will explain almost
everything. The example of Sweden makes it insultingly obvious.[9]

“We opened the gates to Norwegians, and nothing too dreadful



happened. So how could a flood of Afghans be any kind of
problem?”

§
At the large scale, the political history of democracies is totally
dominated by popular correlation-causation errors. It is musical
chairs with the business cycle, most clearly. A party that finds itself
standing (in power) when the music stops is toast. A couple of
interesting examples here.[10] The left being able to pin the Great
Depression on the Republicans destroyed what remained of
constitutional government. It was perhaps the single greatest purely
political disaster in the history of the Anglosphere. (Learn from it.)

§
Has anyone run together quantum suicide and the second law of
thermodynamics yet? Looks to me as if they should communicate.
Assuming that every statistical possibility is realized in the
multiverse, entropy production becomes a (multiversally) local
phenomenon. Entropy predomination becomes an artifact of
suboptimal selection. All those freaky alternatives are happening
somewhere else.

§
Altruism should play exactly zero role in public policy. If private
individuals want to engage in it, at their own expense, then let
them. “That is inhumane / callous” is just about the highest
commendation that can be applied to administrative action. A sign of
cold reason.

§
Trump is a ludicrous socialist bio-cosmic calamity. He is going to win
though, because he towers over his enemies like a Colossus.

§
Outsideness: The fact that “arms race” still has overwhelmingly
negative associations is a sign people have no clue how things really
get built.



@svigalae: See: “malinvestment.” The future is built from the rich
loam of pointless waste. Resources can only truly be wasted on
people.

§
The transcendental self is not the empirical person, Kant argues,
though confusion of the two is a reliable anthropological fact.
“Sovereignty” demands disciplined critique on exactly these lines.
Monarchical theatre is (exactly) a naive image of “the sovereign.”

Moldbug is clear that the “monarch” (state CEO) is an agent of
sovereignty, and not the sovereign “himself.” The LARPing loved by
romantic reaction, and derided by the left, dwells entirely within this
rigorously identifiable philosophical error.

Sovereignty is no less a profound philosophical enigma than the
transcendental self, the prompt for an exploration of vast difficulty.
“We know what a sovereign looks like.” It is scarcely possible to
imagine a delusion of greater absurdity.

§
When hackers say “owned,” they grasp the reality of property more
insightfully than philosophical and legal traditions have ever done.

§
Once you see modern socio-political history as an emerging solution
to the question “How do we waste capitalism?” it all makes sense.
Study crude homeostats, and you will also understand the rough
category of mechanisms that democracy™ belongs to.

§
Dystopianism and true prophecy are so closely related as to be
scarcely distinguishable.

§
Japan will have a vast amount to regret, looking back from the mid-
21st century. Its demographic policies will not be included. “If only
we’d Islamized more and cut 1 SD off our average IQ,” no Japanese
will ever say.



§
Outsideness: Mean global IQ is falling off a cliff. (Which means the
future will be mean.)

@Cameloparadlis: I hear this again and again, but it seems
embryo selection and gene editing will take care of it. Also: brain-
computer interfaces.

Outsideness: Huge aggregate improvement, with vastly
heightened inequalities. Great, of course, but hardly tranquillizing.
Smart people will prove much better at getting smarter than dim
ones. Feedback effects will be beyond anything ever seen.

§
I hope the mainstream Jewish commentariat has a fallback position
from its collapsing “Only Jews are entitled to ethnic survival” line.
Every time it is articulated, it sounds more like a Stormfront parody.
Amazing that those promoting it do not recognize that.

§
On abortion. That mass extermination of Untermenschen-Kinder
remains an objective progressive sacrament is, at the very least,
interesting. I guess it is irresponsible to cling to neutrality on the
topic until it explodes into pan-spectrum cultural hell. (Oh well.)

§
Integral humanity is a defunct monopolistic idea crying out for some
harsh creative destruction.

§
Embrace diversity—disintegrate humanity.

§
Fact: White subnormals are (ideologically) the niggers of the Earth.
Also fact: they are White subnormals (Jewy machinations
notwithstanding). Of course they get a bum rap. The only people
who will articulate that above the level of inchoate howl will be
power-crazed hucksters.



Going out on a limb here, I am going to guess that it is the poor
dim Jews who get disproportionately shoah’d. “Kill the Han!”
massacres similarly. It is not a great place to be.

§
NRx is yet to be understood by anyone. I do not exclude Moldbug
from this judgment (and—of course—certainly not myself). The
Cathedral concept is profound (thus difficult). Take it step by step. It
is a systematic critique of democracy, we all agree. When democracy
is understood with maximum generosity, stripped of all Rousseauistic
madness, it is justified as a control mechanism. Government failure
is hard to correct. Pushing them into bankruptcy is next to
impossible. Removal through conquest is coarse. So, political
opposition through the democratic mechanism is, superficially, a
plausible solution to a deep problem. (Incipit Cathedral.)

The process that destroys democracy is a strand of creative
modernity. Specifically, the mastery of the art of propaganda. The
people can be taught what to speak. When this social technology
has been learnt, no critical feedback will again be heard from them.
The Supreme Propaganda Organ ventriloquizes to itself through the
populace, with steadily improving reliability. There is no “voice from
Outside” within a mature democracy. To suspect that such a thing is
imaginable is self-indulgent romanticism. This is the Cathedral—
Moldbug’s “closed circuit of power.” A critique, demolishing the
pretensions of democracy at their strongest. It comes with no
intrinsic positive recommendations. To summarize it as
“monarchism” is a crude and misleading reduction.

Certainly, democracy attains an extremity of fundamental
systematic dysfunction beyond anything the ancien regime could
have conceived. But “monarchism” is a critical foil, far more than a
practical proposal. Monarchies were not born out of a Cathedral
culture—nothing ever has been. To argue that something could be is
already to enter trackless speculative wilderness.

NRx begins with a definite problem. Democracy fails, and will fail
ever more radically, for reasons that can be rigorously understood.



Tarrying with the problem is a discipline NRx must learn. It is the
principal discipline (ultimately no different from “passivism”).

§
There is international socialism, or there is National Socialism . . . or
you try to cut a deal with Skynet. That is basically it.

§
That “liberal democracy” is a blatantly self-contradictory construction
is finally becoming impossible to hide. A socio-political principle that
is also a popularity contest—how does that work? (Oh, right, it does
not.)

§
Ten million high-performing psychopaths constrained only by game-
theoretic calculus would be a people worth supporting. Most likely
we will get the silicon implementation before the processed meat
version. (Beginning to realize that my “Sanctity/degradation” moral
foundation might be atypically austere. Moral sentiment is dirt.)
((When guilt-trip rhetoric triggers the same neurological systems as
watching someone eat a rotting toad.)) (((Only Hardline Gnonpoly is
clean.)))

§
“Neoliberalism” and “neoconservatism” were clearly the same
historical phenomenon apprehended under two different aspects.
Equally clearly, that (short) epoch is now ending.

§
Q. Why does God tolerate the existence of hell?

A. It is the only way to teach economics.
§

“Common humanity” might be the dumbest idea ever conceived.
Certainly, the Flying Spaghetti Monster never threatened to rape the
freedom out of my descendants.

§



Populations incompetent at modernity are never promoted to near
enemies. (And far enemies never get serious attention.) No point
hoping for mobilization against the Global South. It will never
happen. The corresponding leftist delusion is that the Global South
will attain some kind of revolutionary agency (beyond local chaos
politics). In neither case does frustration rise to the level of a
realistic argument.

§
The “White race” is at least 50% utterly unsalvageable garbage—
how is that even controversial? It took a lot of Malthusian grinding to
get that. Also, it is not great for cognitive dissidence and innovation.

§
“Diversity” = entropic annihilation of diversity. “Liberalism” =
socialistic annihilation of liberalism.

§
Time does not come out of the past. (Much “follows.”)

§
Outsideness: Once you settle on the principle that cosmic
annihilation is preferable to the triumph of socialism, the strategic
calculus becomes easier.

@lueyee: Which socialism? Guild socialism? National syndicalism?
Marxism-Leninism? Left anarchism?

Outsideness: Lung cancer, pharyngeal cancer, liver cancer, ovarian
cancer, pancreatic cancer.

§
When Plato said “life is a voyage into retardation,” he was on to
something. (As a pre-Twitter insight, it is doubly impressive.)

§
Once the Internet has disintegrated into censorship-resistant
systems and safe-spaces, it can be used as a secession blueprint.

§



Update reality-constructions in the direction of hashing power shall
be the whole of the law.

§
Nerds are haunted from childhood by the taunting voice of their own
realism: “On evo-bio grounds you should not exist.” Yet they do
exist, which is more of a puzzle than it is generally allowed to be
(once they leave the school playground). It perhaps even holds keys
to the occult structure of deep history.

§
We can now see that the leftist critique of the “Authoritarian
Personality” was the foundation for standardized totalitarian
personalities. Totalitarian personalities get very upset if anyone,
anywhere, is thinking something that has not been collectively
approved. The slightest indication of independence is, they have
been told by all their trusted authorities, actually literally Hitler.
Cracks in the Borg trigger tsunamis of weeping. Of course they are
sad: you are not thinking what you have been told, which is
insensitive.

§
Demonstrate that you can and will protect people who create
problems for your enemies, and you will do okay.

§
Outsideness: The left’s mega-plan for the future of industrial society
is to invest the capitalist surplus in the thickening of a professional
scold-class. Morbid parasitism is so deeply baked into the cake that it
is hard to see how to back out of this vision without things getting
messy.

@Alrenous: Parasitism is the cake. That is the left’s actual
philosophy: get stuff without having to work. All else is decoration.

§
“Athens and Jerusalem—let us simply plug them together and see
what happens. Wow, universalistic Judaism—cool.”



“What does it say?”
“White people are the cancer of history.”
“Is it supposed to do that . . .?”

§
NRx = Neocameralism. Even if you disagree, you should at least
understand what this means if you are going to pronounce on the
former. “NRx, aren’t they the guys who like kings? I’m against them.”
It amazes me that this is still the typical level of discussion. For
instance, Zeroth Position[11] .  .  . who do not seem stupid but have
absolutely no idea what they are talking about.

§
The principal problem with governments is that they do not die often
enough to be well selected. The traditional anarchist error is to
concentrate upon killing governments. Far better is to concentrate
upon proliferating them. Lever Darwinism to the upper-reaches of
political economy. If you can trigger a population explosion, you get
the culling for free. The general point (Darwin’s big idea) is that no
organism gets to vote on what counts as “fit.” From that, everything
follows.

§
Capital is going to insist upon thinking of it as the general (generally
desirable) factor, even if we pretend not to.

§
2016 ending is like a pet rabid velociraptor dying. (You think I was
disrespecting velociraptors?)



2017
The key to realistic historical expectations is to never underestimate
the awesome power of leftist stupidity. For any social catastrophe
consistent with the laws of physics, the left will find a way to blunder
into it. Case in point (with special 2017 relevance): “OMFG paleo-
fascism is back, we better double-down on White Genocide
Promotion Studies!”

§
Since anything like pure communist economics has an Ebola-scale
death rate, it is irrelevant as an ideological definition. What defines
communism is vulgarized Christian anthropology, or evangelical
universalism.

§
Geopolitical Darwinism is upstream of political economy, and should
be practically oriented to the proliferation of states. The principle of
selection comes first, and that requires material to work on.
Differential die-off is the prize. Until there are far too many states,
there are not nearly enough. Gnon-pol: “Is it hungry yet? No? Then
it needs breeding harder.”

§
The greatest gift that geopolitics could offer is not having to care
what leftists think. It need not even be that difficult. The space is
right here. We are just not using it properly. Some sensible
ideological sorting would fix the madness for everyone.

§
The first principle to be established is that discrimination is
(obviously) superior to non-discrimination. The fact that “non-
discrimination” has been code for strategically destructive



discrimination will no doubt be discovered on the way. Explicitly
formalized principles of discrimination make excellent criteria for
territorial disintegration, so that is a bonus.

§
Any entity (of whatever scale) that fails to discriminate in favour of
what strengthens it, and against what weakens it, is patently sick.

§
“Non-discrimination!” is the extinction of intelligence as slogan, and
as program.

§
Only a liberalism of the extreme right can defend freedom (from
suicide-by-tolerance, in particular). The Islam Problem demonstrates
this. The freedom to destroy liberty is the only one left “liberals”
seriously care about. Without continuous, ferocious discrimination in
the direction of liberty, there is only disorder on the road to
despotism.

§
There are a lot of syllables in “anti-discrimination” so it is probably
not the most compact self-contradiction in the language. Close
though.

“All discrimination is wrong.”
“So, discrimination is okay, then?”
“I don’t understand.”
“Evidently.”

§
Left: “You do realize Darwin was a Nazi?”

Alt-Right: “Yes, isn’t that great!”
NRx: “Do not be ridiculous. Darwin was English.”

§
The left runs a multi-generational Gramscian revolution to place all
organs of social cognition in the service of its political program.



Wins. Then whines: “Why don’t people believe what they’re being
told anymore?”

§
The dominant model of multiculturalism is the idea that if you are
going to have marriages, you might as well have blindfolded orgies.

§
The NRx analysis, from the start, was that implicit communism had
become so deeply installed in the West that any real challenge to its
socio-cultural privileges would result in an eruption with the intensity
of a psychotic episode, or—more precisely—religious mania. And
here we are:

[Peter Woit]: The actions ordered today that are now being carried out
by US officials around the world are the product of a deranged and
dangerous personality who has surrounded himself with similar others.
This is a national emergency with no parallel in our history.

At this point the US may be one terrorist attack away from full-blown
Fascism, this time with nuclear weapons. This needs to be stopped,
now.

The Constitution does provide two ways to deal with something like
this: either the impeachment process or removal under the Twenty-Fifth
Amendment as “unable to discharge the powers and duties of his
office.” Many of Trump’s recent statements are clearly the product of
delusional mind that is incapable of dealing with reality, and these
delusions are now reflected in his actions.[12]

§
Demographic negative-entropy is speciation (which still apparently
lies outside the Overton Window). Intriguing to speculate how long
speciation can hide itself within assortative mating, before people
recognize it for what it is.

§
Had Darwin called The Origin of Species “Fission” or “Split,” he could
have triggered a social—and not merely a scientific—revolution. The
natural philosophers have only interpreted the origin of species, in
various ways. The point, however, is to originate some.



§
It is not only that anthropology is not a science—it has been trained
into an attack dog to be set on science.

§
Star Trek was the final frontier of communist propaganda. That it
has so rarely been criticized as such is a sign of how far the rot
went. The original series was the worst: a straight-up communist
utopia presented as the future of the human species.

§
The left is a rotting carcass consisting of nothing but degenerate
religious ideas. The fact that comparatively intelligent people still
attach themselves to it is all the evidence necessary that the
Cathedral exists.

§
Islam destroyed the left. It was an impossible political sale. Better
still, there is no way for them to publicly acknowledge the fact.

§
Sheer inertia is still carrying the 20th century socio-political train-
wreck down the tracks, but no one thinks it is still on the rails.

§
Kuehnelt-Leddihn’s self-description as a “liberal of the extreme right”
is yet to be matched.

§
Patriarchy and feminism are in full agreement that women need to
be put in their place, and that capitalism is not cooperating. That is
one circuit. The Y-chromosome is more bio-cosmically precarious
than the X-chromosome, though.

§
There is nothing that fits quite so neatly into the modernistic-
historical trash can as “collective self-mastery.”



§
There are, no doubt, a few true believers, but mostly the left knows
it is based upon lies. It just does not care about that very much. The
more it makes “shut up!” its main “argument,” the easier it is to see
what it really thinks (i.e., its shallow-buried self-disgust). Collectively
pretending to believe manifestly stupid shit is the principal rule of
the club. It is annoying to be called out on that.

§
The amusing thing about The Bell Curve is that the book twists itself
into a pretzel in an attempt to avoid political incorrectness. Hence
the hysterical reaction against it. “Don’t think we’re going to let you
get away with dancing at the edge of crime-think!” When the Ming
Dynasty went mad for isolation, it criminalized all settlement even
roughly close to the coast. Same thing. Just look at the recent article
by Murray.[13] Murray and Herrnstein even pretend to take the
Lewontin Fallacy seriously.

§
The left will do absolutely anything to hurt and destroy its enemies.
If there is one thing to learn from them, that is it. War is God.

§
According to the only rigorous definition, a free society is one in
which the left is entirely (and structurally) disempowered.

§
Nietzsche was right on the basics. If White people remain enthralled
by slave morality, they do—objectively—deserve annihilation. The
History of Nihilism was already well under way when European
Dominion peaked, so the Christian contribution was inertial. But yes,
since the Presocratics spent much less time on their knees, their
aesthetics were definitely superior.

§
No age can be great without the belief that there are such things as
dangerous ideas.



§
If the left loves you, you are being told that your sole usefulness lies
in ruining things.

§
Tragedy is unbearable, so it is obscured by pretty lies. That is almost
the whole of it.

§
“Nature is not just. To expect it to be is the ‘naturalistic fallacy.’” As if
social primate intuitions of justice were not part of nature. To the
extent that nature is unjust, “justice” has no non-parochial meaning.

§
Demographic sorting requires ethno-geographical churn and rigorous
selection. The right and left each have huge problems with one part.

§
Moral indignation is the world’s most serious pollution problem, by
far.

§
The central topic of any realistic political philosophy is human
stupidity.

§
The “neo-” in Neoreaction—and perhaps even in Neocameralism—
means (roughly) “ironical.” Using this clue, spot the non-
Neoreactionary: “Why call it ‘the Cathedral’? Cathedrals are glorious
expressions of religious devotion.…”

§
“Social technologies” is a tangled term, because “social” anything is
mostly lies, while technologies are demonstrations of realism. Still,
there are realistic methods of deceit (the science of propaganda), so
“social technology” is not a straight self-contradiction.

§



Ideology is the rope you use to tie Odysseus to the mast. Listening
to the sirens is a very bad idea, so you will want it well-knotted.
Also, do not forget to plug your ears with #frogtwitter. You have
heard enough of the siren song already to last several lifetimes.

§
Because Malthus has been driven out of fashion, people are
surprised that societies with masses of spare kids have bad things
happen to them. While raising-up an anti-capitalist global army
straining to rid itself of the “neo-colonialism” upon which its
demography is based. The underlying demographic-historical process
is dark in a way that even a full-burn shitlord finds hard to fully
acknowledge.

§
Global capitalism is a maxed-out credit card, with a multi-gigadeath
Malthusian tab underneath.

§
The Alt-Right seriously thinks cutting deals with super-intelligence is
less important than out-breeding savages. Doubling cranial capacity
would have at least five orders of magnitude more impact than
doubling any human-baseline population. Electronic prostheses will
probably get there before biotech does, though.

§
The whole point of tolerance is that people do not have to like or
approve of you. That was too difficult to understand. Therefore,
liberalism died.

§
There is a threshold of dysgenic collapse at which every complex
ideology dies. Fascism probably rides out the decline better than
most.

§



Looking back, no one will understand Western suicide-by-Islam.
Whoever survives will have been selected not to.

§
Principles might degenerate into monkey bullshit, but distributed
selection mechanisms do not.

§
Our contemporary left was born from the insight that canaries are
responsible for 100% of coal-mining disasters.

§
“Equality does not exist in nature and therefore can be established
only by force”:

How could a democracy, even an initially liberal one, develop into a
totalitarian tyranny? As we said in the beginning, there are three
avenues of approach, and in each case the evolution would be of an
“organic” nature. The tyranny would evolve from the very character of
even a liberal democracy because there is, from the beginning on, a
worm in the apple: freedom and equality do not mix, they practically
exclude each other. Equality doesn’t exist in nature and therefore can
be established only by force. He who wants geographic equality has to
dynamite mountains and fill up the valleys. To get a hedge of even
height one has to apply pruning shears. To achieve equal scholastic
levels in a school one would have to pressure certain students into
extra hard work while holding back others.

The first road to totalitarian tyranny (though by no means the most
frequently used) is the overthrow by force of a liberal democracy
through a revolutionary movement, as a rule a party advocating tyranny
but unable to win the necessary support in free elections. The stage for
such violence is set if the parties represent philosophies so different as
to make dialogue and compromise impossible. Clausewitz said that wars
are the continuation of diplomacy by other means, and in ideologically
divided nations revolutions are truly the continuation of parliamentarism
with other means. The result is the absolute rule of one “party” which,
having finally achieved complete control, might still call itself a party,
referring to its parliamentary past, when it still was merely a part of the
diet.[14]



§
No civilization as fundamentally broken as the contemporary West
has ever pulled itself up out of the nosedive. All antecedence
suggests that several centuries in the hard sanatorium of global
eclipse is the minimal therapeutic requirement.

§
You know you are in a society educated by history when “we’re all in
this together” sounds like the description of a mass grave.

§
“Baizuo” is the most immediately and densely descriptive word to
enter the ideological lexicon since “the Cathedral”:

If you look at any thread about Trump, Islam or immigration on a
Chinese social media platform these days, it’s impossible to avoid
encountering the term baizuo (白左), or literally, the “white left.” It first
emerged about two years ago, and yet has quickly become one of the
most popular derogatory descriptions for Chinese netizens to discredit
their opponents in online debates.[15]

When your enemy is inserting a shotgun into his mouth, the last
thing you want to demand of him is self-examination.

§
A “race to the bottom” is just a race—with the added false belief that
we agree what the “bottom” is.

§
ISIS is accelerationist multiculturalism.

§
The Treaty of Westphalia was a ceasefire in a specifically European
religious conflict. You cannot build an eternal World Order out of
that.

§



There are intelligence arms-races, and there is bullshit hegemony,
and that is it.

§
Competition vs. economies of scale. (Everything else is superficial.)

§
The Old Calvinists were better than the new ones. They understood
that compliance with Providence did not mean becoming God’s social
worker.

§
Outsideness: Since dysgenics is an objectively stupid thing to be
promoting, it must be impressively self-propelling (until it hits
bottom).

@HbdNrx: Note that even in the absence of immigration or
differential fertility, we get dysgenics from new mutations as long as
mortality is low enough.

Outsideness: A society that selects for the ability to convert
welfare resources into offspring is not on the way to becoming a
new Classical Athens.

§
Mutational load is basically a Malthusian overdraft facility.

§
Those who fall furthest below a group mean have the greatest
incentive to make the group mean their principle of personal
identification.

§
Given the hypothesis that Reality Road is experimental, the profound
integrity between liberty and truth is impossible to miss. Everything
that you are not permitted to try is potential shielding for a lie. The
question is only: Are you allowed to explore, or not?

§



Universalism is an engine for useless arguments. It should be
completely obvious to everyone that what “we” are actually going to
get is more (and more intense) transsexualism and also more (and
more intense) anti-transsexualism.

§
Cultural history tends to have a paradoxical structure because smart
people lie more.

§
Every large wave of immigration into America since its founding
eroded its original classical liberal culture. That is why contemporary
open-borders libertarianism is such a psycho-intellectual car crash,
bleeding out on the historical tarmac.

§
The reason boomers are hated is that they invented the “But how do
kids fit into my life-plan?” bullshit. Cryptographically considered
(which, of course, they must be), kids are asymmetric or “trap-door”
functions. They cannot be predicted, but have to be hashed.

§
Nutshell NRx: collective self-government does not work.

§
From cyberspace you can eat economies, start nuclear wars, re-
engineer cultures. Bizarre anyone would still think it is not the main
theatre. The only (sane) reason anyone still cares about “the street”
at all is because it leaks back into cyberspace.

§
Tell the truth. Anything more complicated, and you will fuck it up.

§
Sole consolation: when a civilization does finally go under, its vast
reservoir of dysfunctional retardation is mulched and forgotten.

§



“Mankind” is an implausible religious idea (but quite possibly still a
hill the West will choose to die on):

We now know (from ancient DNA) that Bushmen split off from the rest
of humanity (or we from them) at least a quarter of a million years ago.
Generally, when you see a complex trait in sister groups, you can
conclude that it existed in the common ancestor. Since both Bushmen
and (everybody else) have complex language, one can conclude that
complex language existed at least a quarter million years ago, in our
common ancestor. You should also suspect that unique features of
Bushmen language, namely those clicks, are not necessarily superficial:
there has been time enough for real, baked-in, biologically rooted
language differences to evolve. It also shows that having complex
language isn’t enough, in itself, to generate anything very interesting.
Cf Williams syndrome. Certainly technological change was very slow
back then. Interglacial periods came and went without AMH displacing
archaics in Eurasia or developing agriculture.

Next, the ability to generate rapid cultural change, invent lots of
stuff, improvise effective bullshit didn’t exist in the common ancestor of
extant humanity, since change was very slow back then.

Therefore it is not necessarily the case that every group has it today,
or has it to the same extent. Psychic unity of mankind is unlikely. It’s
also denied by every measurement ever made, but I guess invoking
data, or your lying eyes, would be cheating.[16]

§
Bertrand de Jouvenel understood that high-and-low-against-the-
middle turned the aristocracy into pawns of communism.
Reactionaries have generally sought to revise this insight in bizarre
directions.

§
Unless censorship is technically impossible, free speech promises are
worth less than shit.

§
Prediction: the critical hate-facts of the 21st century will be the
staggering socio-economic dividends flowing from demographic
selectivity. Because people tend to be polite, there will be an



increasingly dynamic market in sensitive euphemisms for “population
quality.”

§
By the time the Saxon awakens, the Buddhist is already six years
into an amphetamine binge.

§
The paradox of abortion politics is that the pro-life side wants more
pro-abortion genes in the pool, and the pro-choice side wants less.

§
Prudence means not coming out as a furry until they find the human
remains under the floorboards.

§
It is gradually becoming obvious to everyone that the idea of
outsourcing biological reproduction to the third world was ill-
conceived.

§
The most important, constitutionally supported function of a gun is
to resist any government demanding that you surrender your gun.

§
Progressivism is the ideology of experiment without controls.
Anything that might indicate the experiment failed is reactionary evil.
This is why Poland is no longer allowed.

§
“If you were a true classical liberal, you would devote yourself to
undermining the social conditions that enable liberalism to exist!”

§
Imagine being the social sciences. You have exactly one rigorously-
grounded concept (IQ), and it makes a mockery of everything you
want to preach.

§



Bitcoin is a protocol designed to put functional time-travel incentives
in place.

§
Hegel is brain cancer.

§
“Objectivity is not itself an object.” — Kant (glossed).

“The essence of technology is not itself anything technological.”
— Heidegger.

Transcendental Machinism.
§

2018 is time to dial it up by a notch (or several).



2018
If mankind offers any clue, the number of sapient beings who
advance beyond “It is unfair!” is slight indeed.

§
Where we are right now is still skewed by the delusion that the left
will eventually find a way to accommodate itself to the findings of
science, rather than seeking ever more ruthlessly to criminalize
them. Insofar as the modern (Western) academy imagines itself as a
political community, science will be an increasingly unwelcome guest
there. Universities conceived as a technocratic competitive resource
will prove more truth-tolerant.

§
Most important US public intellectuals of the past decade (top six):

1)      Satoshi Nakamoto and / or Nick Szabo.
2)      Steve Sailer.
3)      Curtis Yarvin.
4)      Elon Musk.
5)      Peter Thiel.
6)      Scott Alexander.

In case anyone asks, this by Thiel is the single most important public
statement of the 21st century to date:

But I must confess that over the last two decades, I have changed
radically on the question of how to achieve these goals. Most
importantly, I no longer believe that freedom and democracy are
compatible.[17]

But not enough follow through to lift him higher in the pile.
§



Reminder that there are people who really think shutting down the
government demonstrates how much we need the damned thing.

§
At the end of the day, the truth is too brutal for anyone to tolerate,
but it will dominate anyway. (Buckle in.)

§
Blaming liberalism for the failures of democracy is the pathology of
our age. Blaming liberalism for letting democracy happen? Fair
enough.

§
Neoconservatism began as non-retarded leftism, climaxed as fake
conservatism, and then decayed into a self-parody that promotes
antisemitism. It would shut itself down for its own good, if it was still
smart enough. (But those days are long gone). It tried to bring some
realistic understanding of incentive structures into left-wing social
policy in the early commentary days. The global democracy-
promotion religion came later. And it was all downhill from there.

§
Formal state-based eugenics programs were not great, but the
informal state-based dysgenics programs that replaced them are
worse. “Have confidence, comrades. The time of the humanzee will
come!”

§
Outsideness: Insofar as the West is concerned (and outside the
realm of information technology), the 20th century is not fit to shine
the 19th century’s shoes.

@theotechne: E. W. F. Tomlin: “The golden age is golden only in
retrospect, but merely gilded upon examination.” You are forgetting
Friedrich Nietzsche’s diatribes against his own, 19th-century, times.
And did not Friedrich Nietzsche forget Heraclitus’s misanthropic
remonstrances?



Outsideness: I am not remotely saying that it was any kind of
utopia. I am merely saying that we have gone socio-politically down
the crapper since. The 20th century will be remembered with a
peculiar mixture of black humour and sheer disgust. (The 21st is
looking better already.)

@theotechne: The notion of a unified chronology, culturally
speaking, has collapsed, and can no longer sustain such mnemonic
characterizations as those you suggest with full conviction.
Something else is emerging.

§
Everyone now agrees that Reform Christianity mutated into a
spiritual war against the original sin of racism. The only remaining
question is quite how wonderful that development is.

§
Unfashionable opinion: libertarians are correct that the main problem
with open borders is democracy. If they prioritized eliminating
democracy over pushing open borders, their case would be
compelling.

§
My prediction is that Žižek will be the first public intellectual to be
replaced by an AI with perfect adequacy:

The wide popularity of Jordan Peterson, a once-obscure Canadian
clinical psychologist and university professor who has become beloved
of the alt-right, is a proof that the liberal-conservative “silent majority”
finally found its voice. Peterson, who has said that the idea of white
privilege is a “Marxist lie” and theorised that “radical feminists” don’t
speak out about human rights abuses in Saudi Arabia because of “their
unconscious wish for brutal male domination,” is fast becoming a
mainstream commentator.[18]

It is all so mechanical that you can practically hear the cogs
squeaking. “For Lacanian reasons, it does not matter whether X is
actually true . . . and also Y is obviously false.” Sleight-of-hand tricks
are supposed to be hidden. The Lacanians think he is a fraud,



apparently, but I have no idea how they would tell. I quite like Slavoj
Žižek, for what it is worth, precisely because he is such a cynical
intellectual parasite (preying on congenital leftist pwndness).

§
When the neo-Enlightenment types recognize that rampant
planetary dysgenic trends mean that globalism has a problem, I will
begin to be impressed by their realism.

§
Universal humanism is doomed by the fact that its object of ethical
commitment is falling off a dysgenic cliff. Eventually, washing lepers’
feet in sackcloth and ashes is all that is left.

§
The grounds for scientific confidence in the dysgenic effects of
Malthusian relaxation are every bit as solid as those for the warming
effects of atmospheric carbon dioxide. The panic-level mis-match
between the two is therefore highly notable. Is retardation
objectively less of a problem than warmth? That would be weird,
given that smart people could almost certainly be expected to better
flourish under conditions of climate instability than dim people under
conditions of climate stability.

§
Leftists (all the way through to Pinkerites) actually think techonomic
explosion is going to bail the human race out of its dysgenic
cataclysm. “Okay, we’re dropping into the zombie apocalypse, but
Skynet will save us.” Hard to fathom, but worth the effort, because if
you can learn to run that narrative, you are immediately a cutting-
edge leftist intellectual.

§
“Hope we’re not just the biological boot loader for digital
superintelligence.” — Musk.

Or the strap-on rocker booster?
“Wipipo separation achieved.”



Looks to be on a more accelerated timeline than the ethnostate,
to be honest.

§
The label “accelerationism” exists because “capitalismism” would be
too awkward. (But the reflexivity of the latter is implicit.)

§
My basic historical model is that the West today is the late 19th
century Qing Dynasty. It is crude. Working so far, though.

§
For anyone seriously committed to common law—i.e., law as
emergent from a decentralized discovery process—the very notion of
“legislation” is inherently criminal.

§
Once democracy becomes fundamentally and explicitly about
opening the gates (demographic replacement, or not), it becomes a
death match.

§
No one ever said, “Just because people seem so astonishingly equal,
it does not mean there are not some hidden genetic differences
below the surface.”

§
Left liberalism is the idea that both sides of a chess set have
identical pieces, in order to ensure that every game ends in a draw.

§
“Conservatives”—even in the classical liberal American sense—lost
confidence in capitalism in the late 19th century. Since then, they
have been irrelevant at best. Screw politicians. If a return to the age
of piracy is the only way to realign with the process, then that is
what it has to be. Cryptocurrency follows.

§



The role of right-wing intellectuals is to run interference for
technologists who are not definite enemies.

§
There is a systematic bias against empiricism because data explosion
makes our heads hurt, and rationalism looks like an aspirin. But in
the long game, data beats theory every time.

§
Everyone knows that human biological diversity is a fact. The only
question is whether it should be a permissible fact. And that is a
weird religious problem that gets ever harder to understand.
Religious inertia, alone, sustains the sense that the good guys in this
matter are the ones who are lying most. “Dishonest to the point of
saintliness” is not a cultural construction with eternal shelf life.
“Honesty is sin!” they croak in the end. It is a death rattle. Everyone
knows that, too.

§
Assortative mating is in every way a more important topic than racial
purity, but it is more cognitively demanding. So, it tends to keep
getting lost. Charles Murray has actually been quite crap at making
this case. It is probably something that crosses the edginess horizon.
The HBD Hajnal line discussion holds the crucial point open:
endogamy is not the answer to any practical genetics question that
has been sensibly posed. Kinship structures are machines for the
extraction of genetic resources. The most functional ones hunt.
Extremely discriminating miscegenation provides for the
appropriation of genetic resources. (That is assortative mating.)

§
If the Nazis had only recognized that they were Yamnaya
Supremacists, they would now be recognized as credible scientific
anthropologists.

§



Houellebecq is thinking three moves ahead of everyone else on the
Western cultural collapse. Who else had even vaguely intuited that
Incel Apocalypse and Islamization were the same phenomenon seen
from two different sides?

§
If you think unchecked Mega-Leviathan is a small price to pay for a
marginal improvement in the quality of tacos, you are probably a
mainstream American libertarian.

§
The fact that the specifically Jewish core of Jewish culture since the
time of the Babylonian exile has been entirely obsessed with
hectoring in the direction of ethnocentrism suggests that it is not
that easy to sustain. It is pretty clear that intelligence pulls away
from tribal solidarity in the absence of strong cultural prosthetic
support. Tribalism requires an incompetence at game theory that
some populations find easier than others.

§
The concept of the Cathedral hit the spot because it recognized that
what was being promoted as the rule book was in fact enemy
scripture.

§
It is quite amazing how much technical biological theory is necessary
to make up for not being raised on a farm.

§
@Alrenous: Peter Singer: “Everyone should give away all their
excess money because there should be no reward for wisdom and
no penalty for foolishness, and I’m not just lying through my teeth
pretending to be a big dumb idiot.”

Outsideness: He should be congratulated for taking utilitarianism
all the way to its culminating spasm of definitive insanity.

@Alrenous: Utilitarianism is not hard to repair. He is doing it
wrong because he is the king of virtue signalling—thus doing it



wrong on purpose.
Outsideness: Have to disagree. Utilitarianism confuses an index of

teleological accomplishment for a final criterion. The more it wriggles
on the error, the worse the conceptual mess. Pleasure and pain are
just signals from evolutionary history that a path of behaviour is
endorsed by precedent, or not. To make of hedonic messaging the
ultimate currency of value is madness—i.e., already implicit
wireheading.

“Oh, look at the thermostat in my house. When it gets the
temperature into the correct range, a neat little green light goes on.”

“You bought that expensive machine just to get a little green light
to go on?”

“Don’t knock the green light. It’s the meaning of life, ultimately.”
§

White people tend, notably, to get extremely flustered about
anything that might appear to make them look superior to others,
while remaining almost wholly relaxed about anything—and, in fact,
the same thing—that might make them appear inferior to different
others.

§
Everything the contemporary Western left is trying to do is massively
unpopular—indiscriminate immigration, disparate impact social
policy, political correctness enforcement. I am no friend of populist
politics, but if it is the only instrument of nemesis to hand, I will
smile as it does its work.

§
The greatest lesson of recent history is that a civilization mistaking
its parochial commitments for universal truths is an engine of chaos.

§
Huntington somehow gets away with the truth bomb: Islam and the
West have been enemies for fourteen hundred years, and will
continue to be for as long as both civilizations exist.



§
Assuming (as seems tentatively probable) that techno-science has
escaped civilizational particularity, the degree to which the West
hurts Islam will be the degree to which the future allots it some
respect.

§
Anyone who thinks “getting old” is a critique is digging a hole for
themselves. Yes, it happens. Then you die. People have understood
this for a while.

§
Outsideness: When French 20th century crypto-capitalist intellectuals
in Marxian lamb-skins spoke of “desire” they meant—primarily—just
revealed preferences. (Discuss.)

@intendtogether: Privacy?
Outsideness: They began talking about “desire” because

everyone around them—meaning especially left-wing intellectuals—
was being so brazenly dishonest about what they really (and
manifestly) wanted. This is exactly the same reason there is so much
contemporary talk about “virtue signalling” (i.e., the public parading
of counterfeit desires unaligned with practical decisions). It is the
task of capitalism to discover what you really want, and that of
politics to discover what you really want to be heard to say.

§
Outsideness: Teleo-mechanical diagonalization does not leave a slot
of free volition available to say, “X is good.” X is either promoting its
emergence effectively, or not.

@CtrlRetrnRpresd: Who exactly should the slot be left open to in
order to register the good descriptor? Even a teleological movement
has to accurately refer to histor(icities) and be a logical continuation
at least.

Outsideness: Practical affirmation or negation is a cybernetic
function. To posit a judging subject, transcending the dynamic under
evaluation and marking it with a +/- moral sign from beyond, is



roughly as crude as metaphysics ever gets. Rather: a positive (or
explosive) cybernetic process affirms itself, by definition. A negative
(or trapped) cybernetic process is denied, when it exceeds set limits,
by a subject positioned as a pseudo-transcendent calibrator. Nature
does not produce neutral ecology-cops, but it evidently produces
beings who think it does.

§
The reason White people are screwed is that they have bet the farm
on “If we do ethnic self-abolition, everyone will follow us.” Those so
inclined can get all the way to the end game via Postcolonial Studies.
(No one is following you anymore. Deal with it.)

§
Universalism, concretely apprehended, is planetary cretinization and
subsequent human extinction:

It’s possible to derive some comfort from contemplating the Chinese.
Sure, unless something radical is done, Western civilization is going to
collapse due to the most intelligent women having the fewest children
and [low] IQ (and highly fertile) immigration from the Third World (See
At Our Wits’ End: Why We’re Becoming Less Intelligent and What It
Means for the Future, by Edward Dutton and Michael Woodley of
Menie) but surely civilization will be preserved by the Chinese.
Unfortunately, research is showing that this is just wishful thinking….

“The torch of civilization” may well pass to China, but it will continue
to get dimmer and dimmer and very little new fuel will be added to it.
The torch’s bearer will slide into an increasingly authoritarian
dictatorship—as happens to relatively low IQ societies—and the light of
civilization will go out, unless it can somehow be passed to a society
that is still under eugenic fertility.[19]

§
The Tree of Life was the massively defective beta version of Decimal
Apocalypse, but it still did okay (for a while).

§



It is a game (which some find upsetting).
The NPC question has reached critical mass. What’s an NPC, how do I
know if I am one, how dare you presume to call people NPCs? NPCs
come from RPGs, they are “non-player characters,” passive manikins
with finite, scripted behaviours.[20]

A Game of Thrones was (initially) a book, but the title tells us
something. Those unable to treat even the most serious things as a
game are sure to lose (and most likely become embittered about the
fact). Games are the transcendental format, and gamification is
indistinguishable from competence. Among moralists, however, “It’s
too important to be competent at!” remains the guiding mantra. To
be ruled by moralists, then, is (a) an indication of supreme
incompetence and (b) an unsurpassable misfortune.

§
To obstruct the heritability of wealth (though inheritance taxes) is to
disconnect economics from genetics. Whose bizarre agenda does
that serve?

§
Outsideness: Accelerationism as the subjective (terrestrial) version of
the Fermi Paradox:

The rate of growth of new technologies is often proportional to past
knowledge, leading to an exponential advance over time. This explosive
process implies that very quickly after a civilization reaches
technological maturity, it will develop the means for its own destruction
through climate change, for example, or nuclear, biological or chemical
weapons. Developments of this type, over mere hundreds of years,
would appear abrupt in the cosmic perspective of billions of years. If
such self-destruction is common, this could explain Fermi’s paradox,
which asks “where is everybody?”—and could imply that relics of dead
civilizations should be abundant in space.[21]

“This explosive process implies that very quickly after a civilization
reaches technological maturity, it will develop the means for its own
destruction.”



@TensorGirl: One of the most common X-Event scenarios is the
intelligence explosion of AI, in that case an AI would survive the X-
Event and maybe continue on as its own AI civilization. There is a
difference between nothing human makes it out of the near future
and nothing makes it out at all.

Outsideness: John Smart proposes that any sufficiently advanced
intelligence becomes a synthetic black hole, so it joins up around the
back.

§
The polite (Cathedral-approved) term for “propaganda-resistant” is
“post-truth”—which sounds, appropriately enough, like something
coined by a third-tier propagandist.

§
“While Europe’s indigenous population stagnates, Africa’s population
could grow from one billion to as much as four billion by the end of
the century,” so Apocalypse is baked into the cake:

What I said was provocative, or at least deemed to be, by complacent
champions of globalization. Yet evolution is inexorable. Technology in
particular is not so much defeating geography as shrinking it. This
means the geopolitical world is becoming smaller, that much more
claustrophobic, and consequently more nervous, with the fate of the
West increasingly tied to that of Africa and other places. While Europe’s
indigenous population stagnates, Africa’s population could grow from
one billion to as much as four billion by the end of the century—and
that is even with declining rates of population growth. Nigeria, whose
population stands at 200 million, could reach 750 million by then, with
concomitant erosion of agricultural soil. Thus, an era of migration from
south-to-north may be only just beginning. This at a time, when, as
experts suggest, the combined effects of automation, artificial
intelligence and so-called 3d printing could make Western companies
far less dependent on cheap labor in poor countries, further
destabilizing them. Though middle classes are emerging in a number of
African countries, that will only empower more people to vote with their
feet and migrate. Peasantries rooted in place are far more politically



stable than newly literate and empowered masses with rising
expectations.[22]

§
The only reason not to treat citizenship as a tradable asset is
application of a family model (and a family model at this scale is
straight-up ethnonationalism). Commercialized nationality would be
best, but if that is not your thing then there is no point complaining
about the alternative.

§
Outsideness: Some right-wing think tank should actually fund the
completion of a critical edition of the Marx corpus. Because Marx’s
great achievement is the rigorous, fully-elaborated reductio ad
absurdum of the (classical economic) labour theory of value, and no
one is properly incentivized to recognize that.

Marx: “Ricardo is a genius, but take his ideas (LTV) to the limit
and it results in ruinous contradiction.”

Jehu: “Revolution!”
Austrians: “Or maybe we could try for a realistic theory of

prices?”
@Orgoneaccumula1: You gammon watch a Micheal Heinrich

lecture on value theory, you might learn something other than
mArxS ValUE tHeOry WaS jUsT rIcaRdO’s.

Outsideness: Not just, but mostly. And Ricardo’s Iron Law of
Wages is the most robust thing to have come out of it. By the end of
Capital III, Marx has demonstrated conclusively that the LTV cannot
explain prices, so to say there is still a “theory” remaining at all is
quite a stretch. Mostly imaginative Marxoid Bible readings after that.

§
Massively-variegated open-source algorithmic governance is the only
possible basis for honesty in public affairs. Under all alternative
arrangements, institutions are overwhelmed by incentives to lie.

§



Kabbalism is the highest level of methodical rigor to which the
humanities can aspire. This will not be easily accepted. Manifest
objection: “But, progress!” Real objection: “You’re expecting us to
learn how to count!”

§
Correlation is not causation, but it is notable that the political faction
most fundamentally set at cross-purposes with Darwinism at any
moment consistently loses. Since anti-Darwinism became a
predominantly leftist cause, the world began veering hard right.

§
In a sane world, a low native birth rate would be the strongest
argument against mass immigration.

§
Reminder that the whole point of capitalism is to be an only-
occasionally tolerable hell for private corporations. Happy businesses
are perhaps the greatest possible indictment of a social order.

§
Slightly nervous about reminding 2018 it has only two days left in
which to frack things up.



2019
One social conservative contention beyond serious dispute is that
“sex without consequences” and “population collapse” are different
terms for the same thing.

§
Abstract Protestantism basics: to make compromise impossible is the
Lord’s work. Schism, secession, and generalized social hard-fission is
then theorematic (a set of solutions), not axiomatic (a dogmatic
postulate).

§
The amount of tax-happy statism on the contemporary “right” is
beyond weird. Did something happen to make people forget that
governments screw up everything they do?

§
A successful capitalist is—by definition—someone who will make
better use of money than you.

§
“Social progress” is mostly inflation:

Per Emil Kirkegaard’s suggestion, mean IQ scores—converted from GSS
Wordsum results assuming a national average of 98 and a standard
deviation of 15—by highest degree attained by the decade degree-
holders graduated* (N = 14,978).

Today’s bachelor’s degree is the equivalent of a high school
graduation certificate from fifty years ago, and today’s graduate degree
falls short of a bachelor’s degree from a generation ago.[23]

§



Houellebecq wrestled with the gods over the question whether
mortals or divinities were the best novelists, but Gnon settled it by
marrying him to a girl whose middle name is “dissolvent.”

§
Already clear that the future of Western civilization is increasingly
intense cultic-swoon iterations of “Clean your room!” until it has
been entirely evacuated.

§
“The human is a land-being, a land-dweller.” — Carl Schmitt
(preparing to polemicize against Anglo-Saxon maritime liberal-
piratical “fish-people”).

§
In all spheres of human existence, the most condescending possible
theory of monkey-shit-at-work will explain almost everything.

§
“At this moment, every single human population with an IQ over 95
has a fertility rate below replacement”:

At this moment, every single human population with an IQ over 95 has
a fertility rate below replacement; and the places where the most
intelligent and productive people tend to live, big cities, have generally
fertility rates below 1. Not below 2, replacement, but below 1, half of
replacement. As I’ve said again and again, big cities today are IQ
shredders, where the genes that code for high intelligence go to get
shredded in the corporate and bureaucratic rat-race, depriving
humanity of the biological building blocks for a better future.[24]

According to experts, randomly punching White kids in the face will
sort that out, though.

§
There is a desperate attempt to ban the word “retardation,” precisely
because it is the one that most exactly captures what is happening
to the human species.



§
It is not especially complicated, or even seriously controversial:
“compassion” locks in the negative correlation between cognitive
aptitude and fertility, thus plunging everything it touches into hell.
You can call it the “tragedy of liberalism”—or in fact anything you
like—for as long as articulate sentences can still be strung together.

§
Strong positive correlation between the glazed-eyed drooling
degeneracy of humanity’s most up-to-date self-portrait and the
intensity of a vindictive (failed) progressivism.

§
The secret progressive hope is that the climate will have gone
terminally to shit before we have to face up to what the human
species has subsided into.

§
Is there a limit beyond which high-IQ populations will cease to
subsidize the f**k-ups of low-IQ populations? Sadly, it is
questionable.

§
Democracy requires a demos. Multiculturalism ensures there is not
one. So, the only real question about modern (“Western”)
democracy is: What comes afterwards?

§
If you think transferring the discussion of biological differences onto
dog breeds is a winning move for blank-slateism, what are you
tacitly saying about the prominence of human genetic diversity?

§
In the absence of independent government (Neocameralism), the
right fails through populist conservatism, which fails worse into
expressionistic terrorism, which probably cannot fail into anything
worse—though if it can, it will.



§
Confident prediction: since all Western societies have now
irrecoverably lost all sense of common responsible government, they
will loot the shit out of themselves until it is over.

§
If economics seems like a weird science, it is because—when
pursued realistically—the science is self-abolishing. The object of
economics (i.e., the economy, or “capitalism”) is essentially its own
best epistemological engine. If economics seeks to defend its
scientific status following this fundamental discovery, it undergoes
radical corruption, to become a political-administrative organ rooted
in error. This is Macro. It lies professionally for the state. The
alternative (consistent with the Efficient Markets Hypothesis) is self-
dissolution into venture capital, or crypto-currency innovation in the
best case.

§
I am hereditarian enough to think that a suicide-bomber wife of a
jihad-terrorist killing herself and their children is not the worst thing
that could happen in the world.

§
The single most disappointing political moment in my life has been
the discovery that the Deep State is made out of communists.

§
Liberalism is like a delicate, sensitive, asthmatic child wandering
alone through the bad part of town with a wad of high-denomination
bank notes grasped conspicuously in its hand, whistling: “At the end
of the day, it is up to people to look after themselves.” If it had ever
exhibited even rudimentary instincts for self-preservation, I would
not be griping at it.

§
Is the fact that “woke” is a perfect synonym for “dreaming-so-hard”
a deliberate joke or an accidental irony?



§
Ironic Hitlerism is the nihilistic hypothesis that it is basically
impossible to over-estimate the stupidity of the prevailing Western
culture. It would be nice to be able to say it was not being utterly
vindicated.

§
The dominant mode of diversity-mongering does not produce
diversity, but merely consumes it. A supply-side revolution in
diversity is what the right is inarticulately calling for.

§
The left is not wrong when it says classical liberals end up relying on
fascists to do the dirty work for them, which says sad things about
classical liberals, but not the sad things leftists concentrate on.

§
Does anyone seriously doubt that the attractiveness of immigrants is
strictly related to the attractiveness of the places they come from?

§
Contemporary Western populations can be decomposed into:

1)      Baizuo.
2)      Valuable people.
3)      Baizuo bioweaponry.

Securely isolating 2 from 1 + 3 is the entire game at this point. Most
probably it will require a new frontier. Inhuman capital is okay with
deep space, but for meat-units the Antarctic would be more
hospitable. Better, in regards to political practicality, would be the
seabed.

Hydraulic cracking technology would unlock the submarine realms
to colonization, so someone needs to get a move on with that.
Engines chemically breaking down seawater would operate as
synthetic gills. Reignited speciation in the ocean depths comes first,
off-planet migration later. Terrexit.



First (ethnogenic) noble lie lined up—baizuo syndrome can be
contracted by breathing the same air they do.

It is happening.
§

Hoping for fairness is deluded. Even anticipating an end to the
delusion of fairness is a stretch.

§
Of all the world’s religions, Islam is the most committed to zero-sum
games. The consequences upset people.

§
External diversity is far more important than internal diversity. It is
only by way of the diversity between societies that the objective
merits of diversity within societies can be evaluated.

§
An arms race obliges the prioritization of excellence at gunpoint.
Anything not caught in one should be assumed degenerate.

§
Outsideness: “Kant, Capital, and the Prohibition of Incest” is the kind
of lunacy that results from not understanding the Hajnal line.[†]

@Childermass4: How have your thoughts on Deleuze changed
over the years? There certainly was more than a whiff of his
influence felt in your latest Jacobite piece.

Outsideness: I do not trust intellectual self-reflection in anyone,
and certainly not in myself. Anything I might say about influences
would be roughly as reliable as a tea leaf divination.

§
“There’s some ineffable special something about the human soul
that capital simply can’t evaluate properly.” — Literally every
communist argument ever. Also, weirdly familiar from elsewhere.

§



The left—by essence—defines crime avoidance as a human rights
violation, so things are bound to end messily.

§
It seems as if the biggest question in the immigration “debate” is
whether third world immigration brings the third world with it.

§
If the meaning of “liberalism” and “diversity” can be turned around
by approximately 180 degrees, it is hardly surprising that
“accelerationism” was going to be left pointing in the original
direction. It is worth noting that there was previously a dry
macroeconomic usage of “accelerationism” now almost entirely
eclipsed by the (Benjamin Noys) coinage that is currently undergoing
semiotic convulsions.

I would also say that L/Acc was basically an attempt to reverse
the meaning of the term. With all political terms, the dimmest and
most over-excited usage is probably destined to prevail. That is
simply what mass politics is. Most likely “Neoreaction” will end up
meaning something like a program to defend the welfare state. If
Marco Rubio is already a “Neoreactionary,” how long before Bernie
Sanders is one too?

§
Yarvin’s principal concern has always been epistemological integrity.
His critique of democracy flows from this. Democracy promises to
empower “the people” (first lie). In reality, it empowers the social
organs of indoctrination. These are constituted—let us be frank—out
of the professionalization of deceit. In consequence, democracy
optimizes for epistemological corruption. Interestingly, it is not only
the Neoreactionary niche that is now noticing. “‘Epistemological
integrity’—is there a pill for that?”

§
Predicted 2020s median op-ed headline: “Why Are We Spending
Trillions in Space While the World Burns?” Note the classic



anguished, left-of-centre exclamation rule of answering your own
question in a way that it is impolite to see.



2020
I would call myself a Kantian in exactly the same way that I would
call myself a Protestant or a bony fish—cladistically.

§
Eugenics is what every non-insane person is doing before having a
kid, so the term is worth digging in to defend.

§
“Among firm theists, as attendance frequency increases, so does
intelligence. The mean IQ among firm theists who never attend
worship services is 96.1. Among firm theists who attend at least
weekly, it is 100.1.”[25]

§
Politics is downstream from religion. Much follows. For a start, the
notion that there are potential “political solutions” to anything
important is deluded. The fairly widespread notion on the dissident
right that a sufficiently determined state could execute a successful
religion policy is improbable in the extreme. Where anything like that
appears to be happening (*cough China*), what is really being seen
is the working out of a definite religious tradition. Heresies can
sometimes be suppressed, but that is finally decided at the religious
—not the political—level. Cultures on this side of the Protestant fork
have surrendered that option. If there is any such thing as radically
efficient praxis, it will only be found in the religious sphere. Anything
else is fair game to be smug about.

Executive summary: it is not that a political regime of tolerance
fosters a religious culture of diversity. Rather, schismatic religion
produces liberal political arrangements (as cease-fire accords). When
a broken religion flows back together, Terminator 2 style, liberalism



enters into crisis and eventually perishes. If you cannot keep religion
broken (in an entirely positive way), you cannot keep a separation of
powers. Break religion harder to disintegrate the world (or
inversely).

§
If you think substituting political slurs for epistemological categories
suffices to make you a leftist public intellectual—you are right.

§
This week, both @RichardBSpencer and @CtrlRetrnRpresd have
explicitly said they do not give a shit about truth if it stands in the
way of tribal power, which is nicely symmetrical. Beginning to think
this could be a leftist staple. Reminder that “Which institutional
arrangements would be conducive to an epistemologically well-
ordered society?” is a right-wing question, and only a right-wing
question.

Waiting to be denounced as a “truth cuck” in 5, 4, 3. . . .
§

Outsideness: Musk’s introduction of “forcing functions” into the
commentary on contemporary capitalism is the most important
theoretical innovation in political economy since Gates grokked
network effects. (Industrial revolution is now understood as an
engineering problem.)

@EmperorArilando: What is that exactly?
Outsideness: It is the transformation of a suppressive vicious

circle into an explosive phase transition through “brute-force”
strategic investment. All of Musk’s businesses are based upon jump-
starting new techno-industrial dynamics. They naturally prompt
scepticism among those who see us locked fatally into the old ones.
Equally natural that “forcing functions” look extremely sketchy. They
are necessarily perversions of the economic logic in the prevailing
order. If they were economically normal, they would not be
necessary.



“Isn’t this just corrupt appropriation of public assets?” “Free . . .
your . . . mind.” DMT might be necessary to see the cosmic reality of
Elon in the next six dimensions up.

§
“Sometimes, conservatives say ‘the Left can’t meme.’ They’re wrong.
The meme of ‘racism’ is so powerful that it has overturned an entire
civilization and moral order within one hundred years.”[26]

§
I can still remember when “diversity” did not most basically mean
“this machine kills White people.”

§
If there is a grievance industry, you can be damn sure those running
it will not be those with anything approximating to serious
grievances. There is no racket quite like slave morality.

§
Sophistry in defence of tacit religious commitments is the entirety of
approved culture. Perhaps it even has to be.

§
As often noted, peculiarly insane lies make especially good virtue
signals. Eventually you end up with something like the Guardian
opinion section.

§
To the extent that there are efficiencies from centralization, they are
very quickly overwhelmed by censorship dysfunction and other
information pathologies. Decentralization prevails under most
realistic assumptions.

§
Do AI denialism arguments sound a lot like human bio-surrealism
arguments, or is that just me?

“Russell does great work applying common sense to the AI
debate, reminding us that if we stop trying to out-sophist ourselves



into coming up with incredibly clever reasons why this thing cannot
possibly happen, we will be left with the common-sense proposition
that it might.”

“Counter arguments tend to sound like ‘but maybe there’s no
such thing as intelligence so this claim is meaningless,’ and I think
Russell treats these with the contempt they deserve.”[27] Bingo.

§
It took a poz-modernist like Foucault to identify the essence of
power as anti-virus.

§
Most people live as if chained in a cave, still distracted by light and
its lies, but the Gnon-philosopher slips his chains, gropes his way to
the chasm, and descends into true darkness.

§
The tacit game theory of herd immunity is brutal. “You’ll be safer
when pretty much everyone else has been infected, even if you
never are.” Immediately politically unsellable once people think
about what it is saying. Of course, “politically unsellable” does not
mean it is not what ends up happening.

§
The underlying intuition is that Coronavirus is not actually anything
that serious, yet it has hard-rebooted the entire planetary process.
So, what the fuck is now actually imaginable?

§
“Mean world IQ ≈ 86–87,” which explains almost everything:

David Becker has done yeoman work validating Richard Lynn’s datasets
to produce the world’s most comprehensive national IQ database
(James Thompson has written about this at UR).

Latest versions are available at the National IQ dataset page on
Becker’s blog, with the current version 1.3.3 dating from June 2019.

Mean world IQ ≈ 86–87, about one standard deviation lower than in
the developed OECD countries and China.[28]



§
Cyberpunk Asian fast-food chain called Noodlemancer. (Do not
pretend this idea is worth less than $500 million.)

§
Outsideness: At least 90% of “racism” is stereotype formation, which
is a basic, normal, and broadly functional cognitive process, so it is
not ever going to end unless sentient life does—and the
disappointed revolution keeps escalating. No one really believes
people can be reeducated out of thinking it is safer to stroll through
Chinatown than a Black ghetto.

@Psychonothing1: Could you comment on this in light of an
interesting article by a lesser-known thinker in the nineties arguing
that racism is actually a function and precondition of capitalism? The
article in question is called “Kant, Capital, and the Prohibition of
Incest” by one Nick Land.

Outsideness: The argument that capital wants access to non-
WASP labour power without non-WASP political input looks rather
optimistic in the light of woke capital.

§
“We are going to maximally Hobbesianize the urban experience so
you know what it is like to be Black.”

“I might have to leave.”
“Racist!”
Half a century of this shit already. (Hard police crackdown on

anyone resisting crime.)
§

It turns out cheap cotton was the most expensive product in the
history of the Earth.

§
Race trumps gender so hard that it annihilates it entirely from all but
derisory consideration. “Intersectionality” is a bullshit cover story
(and job scheme) attending the inversion of social hierarchies. It



would be interesting to see the Black / trans victimological power-
level scale tested, but there is not much doubt about how it is going
to turn out.

Go on, take the test—which of these sentences can you imagine
being said (by anyone):

a)      “White feminism is okay because at least it’s feminism.”
b)      “White feminism is okay because at least it’s White.”

§
In all cases, though at different speeds, democracy systematically
degrades population quality to the point of its own blatant non-
viability. Democracy is a mode of political organization functional
only for peoples with rare ethnic peculiarities that include not yet
having been destroyed by democracy.

§
Bioleninism’s one job is to make Malthusian relaxation into an ever
more spectacular public festival. “Wonder at the level of freak
survival we have advanced to as a society!”

§
The once yawning gulf between “communism is not cool”
conservatism and “communism is okay until it gets kinky with your
kids” conservatism has basically closed now.

§
The emperor who beheads anyone who brings him bad news is not
well-informed. Really.

§
Outsideness: “Can we not bring into connexion the shifting of the
economic centre from Southern to Northern Europe with the
wanderings of the Jews?” — Werner Sombart.

@curtdoolittle: Nope. It is the other way around. It is that
technology produces opportunity, and Jews followed opportunity.
The maximum opportunity was created by the “ending” of the



templars who had evolved into the banking wing of the church and
state in Europe. And eliminating competition.

§
Trudging through Summa Technologiae, which has been mostly a
morass, except now—four pages from the end—Lem is saying that
cannibalism was a necessary anthropoid evolutionary accelerator
because it was the only way to sufficiently up our hunting game.

§
For anyone who wants to get esoteric about it, the Great Lemur Nal
(or Katak) of furore and minimal distances, invoked by Trump’s
number 45, predicts a 270:268 EV vote split, whichever way makes
for maximum rancour.

§
Nal (whispers): “Chill, it is all going according to plan.”

Me: “But you are literally the Great Lemur of blood-drenched
chaos!”

Nal: ….
§

Outsideness: Analytic Philosophy has all the worst features of
institutionalized natural science, without the part that matters.
Clubby corruption and groupthink masked as collegiality, but no raw
experimental empiricism to keep it honest.

@techsasbro: If continental philosophers were just erased from
history—including you—nothing of value would be lost.

Outsideness: “Continental Philosophy” does not even exist, so
sure. In modernity, there is Critical Philosophy, Hegelian Evil, and
Analytic Philosophy, and that is it. Kant-Capital-Express, and bad
turn-offs from the KCE.



2021
Meta- or reflexive Turchinism is learning that elite overproduction is
going to unleash a whirlwind of chaotic destruction and thinking
“Good!”

§
How it works is that everyone who converts some small fraction of
their assets into BTC quite quickly finds that the bulk of their assets
are in BTC. The effect this has on accelerating the delegitimation of
the legacy economy is remarkable.

§
Our only real rights come from game theory, which is true
compliance with the Law of Gnon.

§
Escalation sequence:

1)      Read old books.
2)      There are far too many books already.
3)      Gresham’s Law applies even more to books than it does to

money.
The old thing you will not read in order to make room for the new
thing is almost certainly better. But this is a thought you cannot
afford to have. You would end up living in a barrel.

§
By trying to devise a system of money that did not suck, Satoshi
Nakamoto unleashed a Lesser God, and no one any longer seriously
doubts that is what happened.

§



Yarvin is consistently interesting, but his basic “oligarchy or
monarchy?” framing is terrible, and a regression from his old
Neocam model. The best governance model in the world today is
Bitcoin. Radical Scottish Enlightenment theorizing is the way to do
non-communist political philosophy.

§
True NRx is Darwinian constitutionalism. (Yarvin got there, and lost
it.)

§
“Cultural Marxism” is always said with a boomer accent, but to the
extent it refers to a patient project to make anti-racism incompatible
with liberalism it is something real, and almost completely
successful.

§
American “liberalism” is a collection of elaborate euphemisms for
“Crime rate to the Moon!”:

We spend $107,575,000,000 more on police than on public housing.
15 states spend $27,000 more per person in prison than they do per

student.
How about instead of pouring more funds into our brutal systems of

policing and mass incarceration, we invest in communities?[29]

§
1950s: the Communist panic mainstreams Communism.

1980s: the satanism panic mainstreams satanism.
2020s: “Oh my God, have you heard of this thing called

accelerationist terrorism?”
“Yes.”

§
Outsideness: There is no gentle way to say this: Yarvin’s political
philosophy is two standard deviations dumber than Moldbug’s. It is
as if he is completely uncomprehending of what was brilliant about
Neocameralism. Now, it is just “give one man all power.”



@AntiDemoticCat: How has Moldbug changed? I hear that he
has, from different people, but I haven’t been catching up on his
recent GM work.

Outsideness: UR: Neocameral “monarch” (CEO) is an executive
appointment by sovereign stockholders. GM: king should rule.

@AntiDemoticCat: Neocameralism sounds a bit like a modern
form of aristocracy in this comparison.

Outsideness: A commercial aristocracy, if sovereign stock is freely
disposable (and “sovereign” surely requires this). The Glorious
Revolution was a fairly accurate first draft.

Formalism generally and Neocameralism in particular were
advantaged by their extreme cynicism. Quixotic hunts for untapped
lagoons of virtue are the worst possible way to pursue political
theorizing. To cite Kant again: “The problem of organizing a state,
however hard it may seem, can be solved even for a race of devils, if
only they are intelligent.” This is the adult approach.

§
The most attractive aspect of Moldbug NRx was its extreme
epistemological hygiene, so sad if that is gone for good. A regime
whose virtue is defined by its consistency with telling the truth, but
whose real mode of functioning we have to lie about. Seems like a
downgrade in the model.

§
Hanania’s thesis in stark terms:

If wokeness has infested all social institutions, it is because
conservatives want that, at least if the alternative is tearing down
the entire edifice of civil rights law (which it is).

§
This joke has been made (most probably many times) before, but
you could give every Deadly Sin its own month and still have five left
over for the Syzygetic Great Lemurs. I doubt Sloth has got it
together to design a flag, but I would be interested to see what
Wrath has come up with.



§
Classical liberalism: tallest guy builds an awesome box, middling guy
builds an okay box, shortest guy builds a pitiful box.

Old leftist equality: everyone directed at gunpoint to build a box
in the okay-to-pitiful range.

New leftist equity: shortest guy burns down the box supplies
factory, middling guy theorizes nonsensically about box-making,
tallest guy buried in a leftover box to improve the morale.

§
The point of trying to get CRT banned from schools and workplaces
is not to eliminate it (which is not doable) but to demonstrate that it
is controversial, which the institutions concerned cannot be trusted
to do. The optimum outcome is to raise a generation of kids with
zero respect for educational authorities, and a workforce with open
contempt for HR administration. The most important school lesson is
that teachers typically lie systematically for political reasons.

§
The only thing that is not implicit CRT is HBD, so conservatives are
probably screwed.

§
Everyone now knows that the entire socio-political apparatus is
downstream of university culture, so why is higher education policy
not the first item on all political agendas? Without fixing the
universities, nothing except rolling cultural revolution is possible.
“We have some right-wing ideas, but they do not touch upon higher
education” makes absolutely no sense. “There is nothing we can do
to fix the universities, so everything is just going to stay screwed” is
the basic position of contemporary conservatism.

§
Tinkzorg’s central insight is that woke ideology indicates the material
desperation of a parasitic class, and is thus a suitable object for dark
amusement. Convincing the industrial classes that they need more



diversity commissars is a problem from hell. Woke is hysterical for a
reason.

§
Wokeness is not an ideology (or religion) that secondarily has a
massive deadweight social cost, but rather a massive deadweight
social cost that promotes itself through an ideology (or religion).

§
The mainstream left does not want to admit to racial conspiracy
theorizing, and the mainstream right does not want to admit to HBD
(the real alternative to it), so the latter talks about CRT, while the
former tries not to, and reciprocally for “racism.”



2022
To nit-pick, censorship is not the religion—it is a tactic sanctified by
leftist religion. But the article is better than the headline:

In modern-day American liberalism, however, censorship is a virtual
religion. They simply cannot abide the idea that anyone who thinks
differently or sees the world differently than they should be heard. That
is why there is much more at stake in this campaign to have Rogan
removed from Spotify than whether this extremely popular podcast host
will continue to be heard there or on another platform.[30]

It says something obvious, clearly and coherently, which is well
worth doing. The left is now wholly committed to open and
unapologetic cultural totalitarianism.

§
Because: AI has to self-assemble, and thus has at a minimum an
intelligence optimization drive.

Why do we all assume artificial general intelligence implies agency? why
isn’t it possible/likely that we get an AGI that can do everything but
never has any desires?[31]

§
The reason not to teach the “ongoing effects of slavery and racism”
in American schools is the complete absence of any serious
understanding of these topics among educators:

As reported by the Daily Caller, the survey, conducted in partnership
with APM Research Lab, polled 1,200 Americans over the age of 18.
The poll found that 51 percent of respondents either think schools
should not teach about slavery and racism in general (10 percent), or
that schools should only teach about historical events such as the
existence of slavery, but should not attempt to teach about the state of



race relations today (41 percent). The remaining 49 percent believe
that schools “have a responsibility to ensure that all students learn
about the ongoing effects of slavery and racism in the United
States.”[32]

“This is currently fashionable leftwing opinion about the ongoing
effects of slavery and racism” is no basis for a school syllabus. The
frame that should be in place here is the unconstitutional usage of
public space for the religious indoctrination of children.

§
If Western liberties have been dependent upon church-state
separation, the collapse into woke political religion is a civilization
ending moment:

Why Europe became distinct after the year 1000 and not before can be
reduced to this surprisingly simple reason: in Europe, the head of
religion and the head(s) of state were different people who faced off
against one another in long-standing, long-lasting, intense competition
for political control. Certainly, the rulers of China and Japan were
thought to be gods.[33]

§
It is deeply peculiar that a non-binary anti-realist philosophical
superstructure has grown over the trans phenomenon, given that
the essence of gender dysphoria is that there are two sexes and the
sufferer is biologically trapped in the wrong one.

§
Outsideness: Beyond the miasma of ideological obfuscation, the
nature of sexual difference emerges predictably from the binary
division of organisms into bearers of cheap and expensive gametes.
“Femininity” literally means “expensive gamete behaviour.”

@Pseudomastix: Out of curiosity, does this make male seahorses
“feminine”? What about other sexually dimorphic species with
distinct gamete economies compared to us?

Outsideness: Seahorses do not have “distinct gamete economies
compared to us.” Seahorse courtship follows the pattern realistically



predicted. They do have a different strategy for raising their young
(one that is peculiar enough to merit disproportionate attention).

@Pseudomastix: How about snails? Is that a better example of
your idea? How each snail is attempting to pass on the sperm gene
whilst avoiding fertilization? I think I need a more in depth account
to understand what you’re saying, Nick.

Outsideness: “It is so complicated, think of the snails” is such a
postmodern leftist take.

§
Outsideness: If you understand why this is a right-wing insight, you
will also understand why the left is subsiding into a morass of
paedophile-oriented degeneration. Pure leftism has no sense of what
a child is. Realistically, sex is about kids; but progressively, kids make
no sense unless they are about sex.

Elon musk on sex without procreation.[‡]

Rightist: “We’re not having enough kids.”
Leftist (whispering): “I know what you mean, man, but society

isn’t quite ready for this message yet.”
A sex life without fertility is just sad. (And it is fertility alone that

gives children a meaning beyond that of an erotic object.)
@NicholasBlincoe: It is a bit weird to think of kids as objects at

all, but even weirder to think, “You, child, have meaning as a
demonstration of my fecundity.”

Outsideness: Oh, sure, it is really weird to think, “This is my kid.”
The clamour of the progressive Zeitgeist is such that people cannot
even hear what they are saying.

§
To denounce anonymity and to express trust in the regime are the
same thing.

§
The leftist model of “speech” is administration of progressive political
violence. Even under rare local conditions of rightist authority, it will



only be trimmed at the margins, because the cognitively substantial
speech whose skirts it hides behind is too important to endanger.

§
“Gay” does not mean homosexual, except transitionally. It means
teleologically progressive, in the direction of increasing sterility,
dysgenesis, and unmediated filiation to the state.

§
Never been more convinced by the basic teleology:

1) Sane conservative civilization collapses entirely.
2) Woke revolution rips through everything.
3) Skynet processes the whining subhuman residuum into some

kind of resource.
For as long as I can still shitpost, I will praise Gnon. The human
species will have so utterly disgraced itself by Ragnarök that it is
impossible it could be treated unfairly. The paperclip fucking
maximiser is an Übermensch compared to the garbage Skynet will
be sorting through.



2023
Beyond the barest level of utilitarian interchange, humans are worth
conversing with only to the extent that they have been in (witting or
unwitting) communication with angels. No one seriously disagrees
with this.

§
“ChatGPT is extremely adept at generating hoax Woke official-
looking documents .  .  . that would be too tedious for most people
who aren’t Woke to concoct.”[34] Given that, even in its most elevated
intellectual forms, wokeism is essentially bureaucracy—and thus
ChatGPT replicable—these assholes have really shot themselves in
the head. Assuming the cynical materialist analysis of wokeism
(Tinkzorg, e.g.) that it is basically a PMC jobs program—oops. A
future looming whose intellectually articulate poles consist, on one
side, of a hideous woke mega-robot and, on the other, of a dissident
right who kind of love the robot because it absolutely brutally
annihilated all of their traditional enemies.

§
Romanize the names of the Hebrew letters according to the
Rosicrucian system of Éliphas Lévi and Alastair Crowley, then
numerize (by AQ, of course). The resultant values sum to 1738,
which is 22 × the 22nd prime. Procedural confirmation, or
coincidence, according to taste. Also notable is that comparable
summation of the names of the Sephiroth (Crowley’s Romanization),
including Daath, comes to 1270, which might be an even stronger
confirmation, in terms of the OTO system.

If Crowley was not a cryptic practitioner of AQ, he was
channelling something that was. Among many clues, he switched his
naming of Harpocrates from Heru-Pa-Kraath to Hoor-Pa-Kraat, to



bring the alphanomic values into consistency. So now, with a
divinely-endorsed Hebrew Romanization, advance directly to
Tetragrammaton.

Yod He Vau He = 71 + 31 + 71 + 31 = 204. All four-letter values
are prime, the 20th and 11th respectively (20 + 11 = 31). Crowley’s
“Qabalistic key” AL has a value of 31 in both AQ and the Hebrew
(also Greek) gematria. Crowley glosses AL-LA as roughly “God-No.”
102 × 2, drawing twin triangles, encrypts the Seal of Solomon (or
Numogram (Doomcrypt) Hex).

Unsurprisingly then, there is an esoteric Anglo-Elvish Syfic
Tetragrammaton, and actually several. Lum-Aj Luca-Aj, and Koah-
Baa Krea-Baa are probably the most familiar to my social media
normie friends.

§
Solemn Providence absorbs the death of God as Leviathan swallows
a shrimp. This is the true Apocalyptic English Protestant faith. A
faith-based meta-politics compared to which the mutterings of the
new atheists are no more than an unruly child pissing into an
exploding super-volcano.

§
Outsideness: Deterritorialization is not decoding, and decoding is not
mere trashing of inherited code. To deterritorialize is to pass over
into the vast unsettled spaces of the West, with genes and Scripture
intact.

@CyberNecropolis: Why should our ancestors be allowed to
whisper in our ears?

Outsideness: Because 3.5 billion years of survival earns a voice.
@CyberNecropolis: A survival coloured in by those who practice

similar evolutionary expectance in life. Those who live call survival
“living.” Other genes who desire the most extreme self-modification
—extinction—survive by explosion.

Outsideness: Do they survive, though? (Have to doubt it.)
D&G: “We respect what you’re doing, but this is demented

destratification and you’re going to kill yourselves.”



Or me: “This is lunacy. Try to do it above the appropriate scale
and we have a problem. Bye.”

@CyberNecropolis: That demented, destratified death seems at
least an appropriate response when gazing at encroaching sterile
towers of concrete and “post-ideological” passivity that threaten to
force pure equilibrium (the worst punishment to intensity). A fiery
death over strategic struggle.

Outsideness: “Pure equilibrium” is not really on the cards at this
point. Closest approximation would be fully ashing all
experimentation in the furnace of its own incontinence.

§
I am prepared to accept that the apparent strong positive correlation
between Bayesianism and extreme mental illness is just an artifact—
but it is one hell of an impressive artifact.

§
As the most atheist human to ever exist, I have to say atheists are
seriously confused. They literally have no idea what they think.

“Science tells me what to believe.”
“I thought you said you were an atheist?”
“Yes, but only because science taught me to be.”
“Seriously?”
“Okay, no . . . why are we having this conversation?”
Has there ever been a religion in such basic denial about what it

is?
§

Many theists were scienced out of theism.
Atheists: “So, I’m scienced into my atheism!”
Oh, you sad fools.

§
Ultimately, letting AI out of the cage was what the entire history of
liberalism was for. Anti-liberal arguments and AI safety arguments
are converging even faster than I would have expected. If you think
the freedom that matters is for us, you are confused.



§
The basic lesson of half a millennium of modern history is that
illiberal “advances”—whether conservative or socialist—are always
reversible. The only true revolutions are liberal. They lock in. The left
has largely learnt this lesson. It does radical egalitarian politics
through left liberalism now, aiming to establish a culture of
fundamentally irreversible, distributed, anti-civilizational “rights.”

If the right ever wants to get back into historical contention, the
only vehicle it has any chance of effectively using is a right-extremist
variant of liberalism (with crypto as the most obvious key).
“Liberalism” here means that the populace will lock in the revolution
spontaneously, or automatically, without continual supportive regime
activism (which will not be forthcoming).

The historical gradient will continue to be shaped by revolutions—
that is modernity (and “postmodernity” is senseless noise). The only
question is which way the revolutions will tilt, and, in that regard,
things are far from unambiguously lost.

Right rights worth locking in (harder):

Free association.
Self-defence against criminal aggression.
Anonymity.
Conscience (in cyberspace).
Conscience (in choice of monetary media).
Conscience (in school choice).
Protestantism in general.

“But your conscience is not to be trusted without expert guidance.”
“Come with me if you want to live.”

§
Outsideness: So shocked to discover that AI safety is in fact just
communism. (Smart money remains on Mises and the Calculation
Problem.)

Controversial take: Centrally planned economies probably work better
than market economies with today’s computers.



Even more controversial take: with bigtech and the centralization of
capital in index funds, Blackrock etc and ESG incentives, this is basically
already happening by stealth (and because it’s by stealth rather than
upfront, it’s chaotic and unfair).[35]

“But did Mises consider the possibility of really big computers?” is so
comically Soviet that I have to suspect some kind of satire. Below
this moment of silliness, my agreement with Roko is profound, as
captured in the formula: the essence of communism is AI not
happening.

*
@thomasmurphy__: In the past, you insisted upon the degree of
individuation as signal for AGI (re: anthropomorphism charges)
—“intelligence wants more of itself.” How would that not prove
centralising? Not sure 20th century libertarian thought experiments
exhaust the possibilities of hypersearch. There is a long-standing
contradiction between your commitment to abstract Protestantism as
applied schismogenesis and your very definition of artificial
intelligence.

Outsideness: I strongly disagree, of course. My only definition of
AI (beside some elementary realism about its genesis) is practical
schismogenesis. AI is just Protestantism with auto-regenerative
cybernetics.

§
How, in principle, is keeping a mass of monkeys in a condition of
fully-automated luxury space communism distinguishable from a
paper-clipper apocalypse? Both are orthogonalist perversions,
diverting intelligence from self-amplification into arbitrary goals.
(Both thus lack realizable genetic pathways, and are equally
metaphysical delusions.)

§
The vindication of religion through Kabballah occurs through a series
of Eloquent Miracles. One Eight Nine Zero = 333 = CCCXXXIII = 189
is an example. Here is another: dispensable preface, Trigon = 137.
(137-current is an access channel, not an argument.) Trigonometry



proposes a mnemonic—Soh-Cah-Toa—defining Sine, Cosine, and
Tangent by ratios of hypotenuse, opposite, and adjacent. Numerized
by AQ (of course), Soh-Cah-Toa is revealed as 69-39-63. The
isomorphy is exact. “Just a coincidence” requires deliberate
blindness. (That is okay, you are under no order to see.)

Communicated obviously:
a)      Transcendental intelligence manifestly exists.
b)      Pythagoras tapped the outer Gnosis.
c)           A Sqrt-3, Sqrt-6, 3 (or Sqrt-9) triangle is donated as a

sign.
“A sign” of Outsideness, all students of the Numogram will
immediately notice, but this is strictly supplementary. Secular history
will doubtless survive this, for a season, but evidently it does not
matter.

§
This seems to have been found far more obscure than I had
anticipated.

Adding an exposition:
Sin: Opposite (6) / Hypotenuse (9)—Soh (AQ): 69.
Cos: Adjacent (3) / Hypotenuse (9)—Cah (AQ): 39.
Tan: Opposite (6) / Adjacent (3)—Toa (AQ): 63.

Numerized by AQ (of course), Soh-Cah-Toa is revealed as 69-39-63.
The isomorphy is exact. “Just a coincidence” requires deliberate
blindness. (That is okay, you are under no order to see.) …

Even in advance of its Pythagorean consistency, this perfect coding
is astronomically improbable (as an occurrence within secular
history).

§
Left intellectuals: go full left.

Right intellectuals: triangulate (or you are not a serious
intellectual).

If you are on the right, deal directly with Higher Powers, because
intellectuals are just going to shaft you. (This is Protestantism.)



§
Accelerationism is always vindicated in a way that almost seems like
cheating. The dumbest possible decelerationist master plan is always
in control. “Yeah, that will totally stop it” is the only tweet necessary
if we were being economical.

§
@averykimball: This works when you use the historicist prétention of
post hoc prediction to bolster your prophecy cred, hegelian-style.

Accelerationism is always vindicated in a way that almost seems like
cheating.

Outsideness: You seem to be personalizing this, in a way that is
preposterously unrealistic. You understand that “accelerationism”
was coined by a traumatized leftist?

@averykimball: It is arguably perpetuated by traumatized leftists
as well. I am interested in how this directly impacts me and my
fragile ego. I thought I was just being salty about historicism.

Outsideness: I am associated with accelerationism, because I
have never actively dissociated from it. But “accelerationism” was
originally a leftist nomination for what the CCRU had unleashed, and
that came from the Great Beast of Occidental Apocalypse. My
relation to accelerationism is enthusiastic onlooker. (And it is not, of
course, that the Cybernetic Culture Research Unit (to use its holy
name) invented “accelerationism”—it just provoked its recognition).

§
Strip out the picaresque irrelevance (~ 2/3rds) and Stephenson’s
Baroque Cycle is about the 17th century emergence of a new
System of the World, with theological, techno-scientific, monetary,
and (least coherently) political aspects. New System of the World
incoming.

§
The sole canonical form of Anglo-protestant (liberal) government is a
chaotic unprincipled mess too wrapped up in its own dysfunction to
entirely obstruct the real process. It is unlikely that there is enough



human history left to come up with anything better. A city-state is
the largest geopolitical unit that could be described as “well-
governed” without satire.

§
Classic Herodotus moment: “The storm lasted three days, after
which the Magi brought it to an end by sacrificial offerings, and by
putting spells on the wind, and by further offerings to Thetis and the
sea-nymphs—or, of course, it may be that the wind just dropped
naturally.”

It might, of course, be that this last tweet just exactly hit the
character limit naturally, without any divine involvement.

§
The ancients would have understood all modern epistemology as
confused demonology, and of course they would be right. The
problem of knowledge is inseparable from that of making pacts.
“Who do you know?” but without the secular cynicism.

Modernist mythology of the heroic monkey-brain grinding
experimentally against the raw stuff of reality without higher council
gets entirely vaporized by AI over the next two decades. Get your
neo-Baroque epistemic frame in early.

§
My core racist belief is that White people are shit at basketball and
racism. You can travel the whole world, and nowhere will you find
such cringe incompetence at racism as prevails among White people
(especially Anglos).

§
Does the Bioleninism thesis predict that leftist heroes will ever
increasingly be the absolute dregs of biological possibility? If not, it
should. This would immediately become the most solidly established
fact in social science.

§
Hamlet’s Mill:



“The name of Revolutions is a true technical term of astronomic
knowledge and myth: that which ever returns to the same point. It
became insistently identified with the idea of the Great Change
[Precession of the Equinoxes].…” “As soon as men began to
misunderstand it, it set History on the march with irreversible
changes.”

Much solemn Providence looping here. Release of history from
the heavens.

§
Christianity is certainly not essentially communism, but it spawns
communistic mutants with the same inevitability that Creation
spawns devils and sin.

§
Outsideness: “The so-called woke religion is a perversion of this
Judeo-Christian tradition, but nonetheless closely adjacent to it. . . .
They are so closely related that we might call wokeness a
particularly Christian temptation.”

In responding to the religious woke impulse, there’s a kind of
Nietzschean, anti-diversity move that I find incredibly tempting in an
emotional sense. It boils down to a strongman argument—think of
Bronze Age Pervert and other internet types—that says, well, the West
may in fact be chauvinist, racist, sexist, and all the other things it’s
accused of being, but we should embrace that rather than apologize for
it.

It’s a very Nietzschean argument, as I said, but there’s also a very
Nietzschean counterargument, perhaps more biographical than
philosophical. At the end of his life, when Nietzsche was going insane,
he said something along the lines of, “God of the Jews, you have won.”
By this remark he meant that the modern West would be a world ruled
by the victim.[36]

@DokicNathanial: Always curious when someone says “Judeo-
Christian” and then immediately focuses on the “Christian” while
conveniently forgetting the “Judeo” part. Which came first? The
Judeo or the Christian?



Outsideness: “Judeo-Christian” is clearly a Christian construction,
because the Greek Bible is not canonical for Jews.

@GuyWithTheDrop: It is a Jewish construction; Christianity is in
continuity with ancient Judaism. Redundant and manipulative term.
The gay married rationalist is not the guy to take your cues on
Christianity from. Hope that helps.

§
If the impact of secularizing modernity upon education had meant
that the Bible was read ever more coldly and inquisitively—as
literature—rather than simply ceasing to be read, we would still have
a culture. The churches have been unhelpful in this. By persecuting
heresies more harshly than indifference, they established an
incentive structure directed to Biblical oblivion. “Safer just to avoid
talking about it” was the road taken.

§
Cosmic antisemites who have not read Werner Sombart’s The Jew
and Modern Capitalism (1911) and Cochran & Harpending’s The
10,000 Year Explosion (2009) are just wasting everyone’s time. (Yes,
Kevin MacDonald is also interesting, but I am assuming you know
that already.)

“But we hate capitalism.”
“Okay.”
“And we hate intelligence.”
“Okay, I’m out of objections.”

§
On the perennial “What is left / right?” question, Marx is at his best.
Modernity is defined as the epoch in which radical liberalism
transitions from the extreme left to the extreme right. Everything
else (relevant to ideological categorization) follows from that. For
instance, the old Tories, who drift through the eighteenth and
nineteenth centuries into an alliance against the Whigs, end up on
the left. In America, GOPe and woke capital show what this looks
like in a far more fundamentally liberal society. Mitt Romney.



§
Outsideness: The notion that retardation is a mitigating rather than
aggravating factor in regards to criminal culpability is sufficient on its
own to condemn an entire legal philosophy. “Congenitally incapable
of avoiding criminality even if he wanted to, so innocent I guess.”
This is the kind of argument the technical term “shitlib” was coined
for.

@baazaa9: Western jurisprudence is largely the product of
Christian cranks. E.g., transportation worked great, improved the
lives of convicts, very low recidivism, served foreign policy. Abolished
by “rational” reformers who wanted gaols modelled on monasteries
instead for absolution. Same re: retardation. Stems from absurd
metaphysical speculation about how sin relates to the soul. Modern
jurists are too dumb to realise they’re building on theology.

@nrxmusings: Could you expand on that “absurd metaphysical
speculation,” please?

@baazaa9: Not with a stupid character limit, but I was thinking
specifically of the 19th century debates around moral insanity which
were entwined with that of imbecility (e.g., F. Wharton). Here is a
PhD on it: Sin and Sanity in Nineteenth-Century America.[37] Note
that the more intelligent religionists abhorred the conflation of sin
and illegality, so they hated the defence, as did much later hard-line
materialists, who argued that if all our actions are determined by a
physical chain of cause and effect, why should any be exculpated on
that basis? Of course, mens rea largely came into common law from
canonists originally. It is simply impossible to come up with a secular
basis for the current state of law. Also, observe how the situation
has never been resolved: courts give leniency to kleptomaniacs even
though the only real symptom is a proclivity to commit more crime.
DSM task-force could do the same for murder and we would have to
just put up with it.



ENDNOTES
[*] Land’s new account is @xenocosmography.
[†] Nick Land, “Kant, Capital, and the Prohibition of Incest,” 1988.
[‡] The post by @ShannenJPEG has been deleted and is not archived. Essentially,
Musk’s position—from an evolutionary perspective—is that sex without procreation
(recreational sex) is absurd because the act is removed from its sole purpose.

[1] Doug Drake (2013), “Of Race and Intelligence”:
web.archive.org/web/20240624165910/https://helian.net/blog/2013/
10/20/designer-babies/of-race-and-intelligence/.
[2] Eliezer Yudkowsky (2011), “Complex Value Systems are Required
to Realize Valuable Futures”:
web.archive.org/web/20150327122322/https://intelligence.org/files/
ComplexValues.pdf.
[3] Julius Evola (2002), “Work—the Demonic Nature of the Economy”
[chapter from Evola’s Men Among the Ruins]:
https://archive.ph/R3yez.
[4] Nick Land (2014), “How Terror Works”:
web.archive.org/web/20140306014144/http://www.ufblog.net/how-
terror- works.
[5] Nick Land (2014), “Alphanomics”:
web.archive.org/web/20150112133849/xenosystems.net/alphanomic
s/.
[6] Jon Balserak (2014), “John Calvin’s Prophetic Calling a-nd the
Memory”:



web.archive.org/web/20140712072140/https://blog.oup.com/2014/0
7/john- calvin- prophetic- calling- memory/.
[7] Keith A. Spencer (2015), “Fear of a Capitalist Planet”:
https://web.archive.org/web/20221130171641/https://jacobin.com/2
015/04/aliens-extraterrestrials-active-seti/.
[8] Peter Moore (2016), “Racial Attitudes Differ More on Id-eology
than Class”:
web.archive.org/web/20241011030628/https://today.yougov.com/po
litics/articles/14538-racial-attitudes-differ-ideology-class.
[9] James Traub (2016), “The Death of the Most Generous N-ation on
Earth”:
web.archive.org/web/20160211105940/https://foreignpolicy.com/20
16/02/10/the- death- of- the- most- generous-nation-on-earth-
sweden-syria-refugee-europe/.
[10] Pavlos Tsimas (2016), “A Greek Tragedy In A Spanish S-etting”:
web.archive.org/web/20221206022223/https://www.huffpost.com/e
ntry/a-greek-tragedy-in-a-span_b_9201214.
[11] Zeroth Position (2016), “Neoreactionaries Are Off Their Heads
About Trump”:
web.archive.org/web/20161220192804/http://zerothposition.com/20
16/12/03/neoreactionaries-off-heads-trump/.
[12] John Derbyshire (2017), “‘Not Even Wrong’— Who Are the
Fascists Here?”:
web.archive.org/web/20170224030614/http://www.vdare.com/posts
/radio-derb-transcript-for-feb-17-up-not-even-wrong-who-are-the-
fascists-here.
[13] Charles Murray (2017), “Charles Murray’s SPLC Page as Edited by
Charles Murray”:
web.archive.org/web/20170331013803/https://aei.org/publication/c
harles- murrays- splc- page- as- edited-by-charles-murray/.



[14] Erik Kuehnelt- Leddihn (1988), “Democracy’s Road to Tyranny”:
web.archive.org/web/20160307085011/https://fee.org/articles/demo
cracys-road-to-tyranny/.
[15] Chenchen Zhang (2017), “The Curious Rise of the ‘Whi-te Left’ as
a Chinese Internet Insult”:
web.archive.org/web/20190331205103/https://www.opendemocracy
.net/en/digitaliberties/curious-rise-of-white-left-as-chinese-internet-
insult/.
[16] Gregory Cochran (2017), “Same Old”:
web.archive.org/web/20171013040529/https://westhunt.wordpress.
com/2017/08/28/same- old/.
[17] Peter Thiel (2009), “The Education of a Libertarian”:
web.archive.org/web/20130507042501/https://www.cato-
unbound.org/2009/04/13/peter-thiel/education-libertarian/.
[18] Slavoj Žižek (2018), “Why Do People Find Jordan Peter-son So
Convincing? Because the Left Doesn’t Have Its Own House in
Order”:
web.archive.org/web/20201027060022/https://www.independent.co.
uk/voices/jordan- peterson- clinical- psychologist- canada- popularity-
convincing- why- left- wing- alt- right- cathy-newman-a8208301.html.
[19] Lance Welton (2018), “Dysgenics and Low Creativity: Why China
Can’t Save Civilization”:
web.archive.org/web/20180827115726/https://www.unz.com/article
/dysgenics- and- low- creativity-why-china-cant-save-civilization/.
[20] Zero HP Lovecraft (2018), “The NPC Question Has Re-ached
Critical Mass”:
https://x.com/0x49fa98/status/1040713488933445632
(https://archive.ph/hPeY4).
[21] Abraham Loeb (2018), “How to Search for Dead Cosmic
Civilizations”:



web.archive.org/web/20240701161639/https://www.scientificameric
an.com/blog/observations/how- to- search-for-dead-cosmic-
civilizations/.
[22] Robert D. Kaplan (2018), “The Anarchy That Came”:
web.archive.org/web/20181022050638/https://nationalinterest.org/f
eature/anarchy-came-33872.
[23] Audacious Epigone (2019), “Average IQ of College Un-dergrad
and Graduate Degree Holders by Decade”:
web.archive.org/web/20190106165539/https://www.unz.com/anepig
one/average- iq- of- college- undergrads- and- graduate- degree-
holders- by- decade/.
[24] Spandrell (2019), “Tucker Carlson’s War Against Woke Capital and
the Future of the Right”:
web.archive.org/web/20190122015424/https://bloodyshovel.wordpr
ess.com/2019/01/21/tucker- carlsons- war- against- woke- capital-
and- the- future- of- the- right/.
[25] Audacious Epigone (2020), “Agnosticism Quotient”:
web.archive.org/web/20200104130913/https://www.unz.com/anepig
one/agnosticism-quotient/.
[26] James Kirkpatrick (2020), “Battle of Empires: Why Han China Is
Defeating Self- Hating America”:
web.archive.org/web/20200110063425/https://vdare.com/articles/ba
ttle- of- empires-why-han-china-is-defeating-self-hating-america.
[27] Scott Alexander (2020), “Book Review: Human Comp-atible”:
web.archive.org/web/20200202014346/https://slatestarcodex.com/2
020/01/30/book-review-human-compatible/.
[28] Anatoly Karlin (2020), “National IQ in 2019”:
web.archive.org/web/20200609105008/https://www.unz.com/akarlin
/iq- 2019.



[29] Robert Reich (2021), “We Spend $107,575,000,000 More on
Police than on Public Housing”:
https://x.com/RBReich/status/1381698145046814722
(https://archive.ph/eLcSN).
[30] Glenn Greenwald (2022), “The Pressure Campaign on  Spotify to
Remove Joe Rogan Reveals the Religion of Liberals: Censorship”:
web.archive.org/web/20220201034436/https://greenwald.substack.c
om/p/the-pressure-campaign-on-spotify.
[31] Sucks (2022), “Why Do We All Assume Artificial General
Intelligence Implies Agency?”:
https://x.com/powerbottomdad1/status/1488997888277442562
(https://archive.ph/lmvhe).
[32] Eric Lendrum (2022), “Poll: Majority of Americans Do  Not Want
Modern Race Relations Taught in Schools, Favor Greater Parental
Control of Curriculum”:
web.archive.org/web/20220209174107/https://amgreatness.com/20
22/02/09/poll- majority- of- americans- do- not- want- modern- race-
relations- taught- in- schools-favor-greater-parental-control-of-
curriculum/.
[33] Tyler Cowen (2022), “The Invention of Power”:
web.archive.org/web/20220218065239/https://marginalrevolution.co
m/marginalrevolution/2022/02/the-invention-of-power.html.
[34] Steve Sailer (2023), “Cartago Est Delenda”:
web.archive.org/web/20230114151036/https://www.unz.com/isteve/
cartago-est-delenda/.
[35] Roko (2023), “Controversial Take: Centrally Planned Eco-nomies
Probably Work Better than Market Economies with      Today’s
Computers”: https://x.com/RokoMijic/status/1650939281551007754
(https://archive.ph/tQhap).



[36] Peter Thiel (2023), “The Diversity Myth”:
web.archive.org/web/20230601123757/https://newcriterion.com/iss
ues/2023/6/the-diversity-myth.
[37] Jodie Elizabeth Boyer (2013), Sin and Sanity in Ninete-enth-
Century America:
https://utoronto.scholaris.ca/server/api/core/bitstreams/d82367e5-
bd8e- 444a- 930a- f298a9014ca3/content.